<!--title={Getting the "pos"}-->

<!--badges={Python:11,Algorithms:15}-->

<!--concepts={directedGraphs, introToGraphs, useOfGraphs}-->

**Step 1: Add our edges from the input file graph to graph `G2`**

We should use a function from the `networkx` package to add the edges of the graph from the input file. We had saved these edges in a list in previous parts of the lab and should reuse that variable.  

**Step 2: Use the hieracrhy_pos() function to order the positioning of each node**

To get the correct `pos` we need to look at how we can use the provided `hierarchy_pos()` function. 

`hierarchy_pos()` is a function designed to make the graph's layout hierarchical (it had to be made separately because the `networkx` did not have a predefined hierarchical layout). 

**Step 3: Input a graph argument into our hierarchy_pos() function**

We can see from the function that the first argument it needs is the graph `G`. You should pass the graph `G2`, which we have constructed from the `networkx` package, as the graph for the `hierarchy_pos()` function. Remember that we are **NOT** using the graph from our custom class `Graph` as we **MUST** use the graph constructed from the `networkx` package.

When you look at the rest of the arguments, what do you notice? They all are already assigned values! So what else do we need to provide as an argument besides just `G` ?

Think about how you can identify the root of the graph you made. If you can, just provide that as the second argument, and you'll have your `pos`.  
