<!--title={Recursion}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:5,Python:5}-->

# Recursion with Binary Search Trees 

Recursion is a common coding strategy where we write a function that calls itself until it reaches a base case. 
Below is a code example where recursion is implemented to find the factorial of a number. 
The function takes in a number and it should return the factorial of the number. 
When writing a recursive function, the first thing we want to establish is a base case. In this case, the mathematical relationship of the factorial of 7 would be ...
``` python
7*6*5*4*3*2*1
```

It multiplies every number from 7-1 and after it multiplies by 1, all the calculation is finished. Hence, our **base case** will be when number == 1. 
Right now, it may seem confusing but it will make sense when all the pieces come together. 
``` python
def fact(number): 
  if(number == 1)  # base case 
    return product;
```

Now, lets write the rest of our recursive function. Since `number == 7` (in our example), it would not fall into our if-statement. We will write an `else` statement
that accounts for when `number` != 1. 
```python
  else
    product = number*(fact(number-1)) # this is where the recursion occurs
  
  return product
```

Now that `number` is equal to 6, it will recursively call `fact(5)`. The recursive calls will continue until `fact(1)` is called, in which case it will start to go up the recursive chain, returning the value of each product until we finally reach the first call, in which we are doing 7 * 6! to get the value of 7!.


### Another Example
Recursion is an incredibly confusing topic so lets take a look at another example before we implement it into our Binary Search Tree.
The general outline we want to approach recursion is:
1. Simplify the problem into something smaller. 
   - Our problem is adding `num1` to the number above it. 
2. Solve the simpler problem with an algorithm.
   - To solve our problem, we can solve it by calling our function multiple times. 
     In this case, calling the same function with a `num1+1`
3. Putting Everything Together 

Lets write a recursive function to find the sum of an interval of numbers. We will want two inputs and every number between those inputs will be added.
```python
def interval(num1, num2):
```

First lets write our base case. If `num1 == num2`, then that means the interval is zero and there are no more numbers to add. So our base case looks like this:
Sum is simply the number that is the sum of the interval of numbers.
```python
if (num1 == num2)
  return sum
```

Now lets incorporate our logic. In our else statement, we want to be calling the same function but with `num1+1` as our input. 
```python
else
  sum = num1 + interval(num1+1, num2)
```

Eventually, after enough calls, num1 will equal num2 and our function will return sum. 

Recursion has an incredible wide use of applications that we can implment.
