Remember that Big O notation describes the behavior of functions as input grows, in this case as the number of elements in the doubly linked lists increases. 

**Step 1: Time Complexity**

The time complexity O(n) describes the behavior of the access and search functions on a doubly linked list. Here, **n** refers to the size of the input. So the greater the input, in this case the number of elements in the list, the more time these operations will take. 

This is because of the data structure used to create doubly linked lists. We have pointers going to and from each neighboring node, so in order to access or search for a node, we go from pointer to pointer to find a given value. This means that as the number of nodes (size of the list) increases, the more pointers we pass through, making the time it takes a function of the number of nodes, or O(n).

The time complexity O(1) describes the behavior of insertion and deletion functions. This means that it takes constant time, or the same amount of time, no matter the amount of data in a doubly linked list. This is because no matter the size of the list, we are only ever inserting or deleting one node, so it takes the same amount of time every time. 

**Step 2: Best, Average, and Worst Cases**

For all of these operations, the best, average and worst case time complexities are the same, so you don't need to try to achieve a more efficient Big O.

**Step 3: Space Complexity**

Lastly, O(n) space complexity means that the more elements (n) in the list, the more space the doubly linked list will take up. 