<!--title="Time Series"-->

## Intro to Time Series

### What is a time series?

Set of observations taken at specified times usually at some equal intervals. You can think of it like a timeline.

As a visual, it's just a typical line or bar graph you might have seen many times before. The x-axis indicates time marked in equal intervals like days, month, years etc. The y-axis is your values meaning anything that your are trying to analyze/observe through this time period.

### Why do we need it?

We will only have one variable, time. With time, we can track the progression of things. As we track more and more data, we might see patterns and further predict the next outcomes. 

Time series are useful in cases of, for example, business forecating, understanding behaviors, furture plannings, and evaluation of current situations/accomplishments.	

### When should we not use it?

Time series will not be useful when progress is constant where none of the components are changing. It is also not useful if there is a predetermined patter or formula.

### Components of Time series

**Trends** - movement to higher or lower values over a long period of time

- If the general pattern goes up, it's called the up trend. Down, down trend. If itstays constant, horizontal trend.

**Seasonality** - repeatng pattern of trends that happens within a set time period

**Irregularity** - random patterns that happen for a short period of time that was unpredicted and will not repeat itself; also refered to as noise

**Cyclic** - up and down movements that can span over a long period of time with no fixed pattern and much harder to predict 

### 

