<!--title={Quicksort Time Complexity}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:15,Python:5}-->

<!--concepts={Quick sort}-->

Unlike the previous two algrothms, the quick sort algorithm actually has different time complexities depending on the average, worst-case, or best-case scenario. They all depend greatly on the algorithm's chosen pivot. Here is the code for reference:

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
            i = i+1 
            arr[i],arr[j] = arr[j],arr[i]     
    arr[i+1],arr[high] = arr[high],arr[i+1] 
    return i+1 

def quickSort(arr,low,high): 
    if low < high: 
        pi = partition(arr,low,high) 
        
        quickSort(arr, low, pi-1) 
        quickSort(arr, pi+1, high)
        
```



### Best-Case Scenario

The best-case scenario for the quick sort algorithm occurs when the pivot always chooses the middle of the list. By doing so, it effectively halves the list and doubles the execution speed. Thus, the time complexity would be O(nlogn) in the best-case scenario. 

The Logn comes from the recursive calls:

```python
		quickSort(arr, low, pi-1) 
    quickSort(arr, pi+1, high)
```

If the pivot is in the middle every time, then you're working on both sides of the pivot evenly, thus speeding up the sorting process.

The n comes from the for-loop present in our code:

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
```

When choosing the pivot, you're also sorting both sides of the pivot (left and right). You're doing this through the for-loop, which iterates n times, resulting in the O(n) time. Therefore, when you combine the two time complexities, you get O(nlogn). 

### Worst-Case Scenario

The worst-case scenario occurs when the pivot always chooses either the smallest or largest element in the list. If this were to happen, then the algorithm will run in O(n^2) time depending on the implementation of the quick sort algorithm. This can be seen in the if statement:

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
```

In the example above, if the pivot was always greater than arr[j], then only the following will always run:

```
arr[i+1],arr[high] = arr[high],arr[i+1] 
```

If this were to happen, then the second element in the list will always swap with the right element, making it manually swap the elements n^2 times. 

### Average Scenario

The average scenario is the same as the best-case scenario in which the run time is O(nlogn). Once again, the n comes from the for-loop mentioned in the best-case scenario. The logn is also taken from the best-case scenario. That is because the list is still divided into two even if the split is not exact! Due to that division and the for-loop, the run time is O(nlogn).