<!--title={Working within a box: box()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:18}-->

<!--concepts{Indexing 2D Lists, For Loops}-->

# Working Within a Box


Since we wish to return elements **not** currently in a box, we need to initialize a list with all the elements that could possibly be in an **empty** box. Then, we need to traverse through this list and remove the elements that cannot be in the **specific** box we are observing.

As a hint, you will need nested for-loops and should keep in mind that the box's dimensions are 3x3.

Step 1: We will initialize a list called `elems`, which will contain the elements 1-9 such that `elems = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]`. 

The reason why we have this list `elems` contain the numbers 1-9 is because each box in a Sudoku board can only contain numbers from 1-9 without repeats. So, we will remove the values in `elems` that exist in the specified box. Returning  `elems` will provide a list of numbers still needed within the box to fill in for the empty elements.

Step 2: Create the nested for-loop to run through elements in a box. 

Because a box consists of 3 rows and 3 columns composed of 9 values, we will need a nested for-loop. You must be wondering what the range for iterating through our for-loops is. The possible values passed in for `r_i` and `c_i` are in `range(0,3)`, implying that it can be any number from 0, 1, or 2. This is the case because the box is a 3x3 segment in our 9x9 Sudoku board. There are a total of 9 boxes within the Sudoku board. 


>>> Consider we want to check the first box (the top left box in a Sudoku board). The values of `r_i` and `c_i` passed into the function would be 0 and 0. 

For `r` and `c` we would loop from 0 to 2, covering all elements in the first box: (0,0), (0,1), (0,2), (1,0), (1,1), (1,2), (2,0), (2,1), and (2,2). 

**Remember that `range(0,3)` means we iterate from 0 to 2, not 0 to 3.**

Step 3: Implement logic inside the nested for-loop.
All we need to do is implement the logic inside our nested for-loop to remove elements in our `elems` list that exist in the box. 






