<!--title={Attempting to find the next move: nextMove()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:60}-->

<!--concepts{Functions}-->

# nextMove()

Moving on to the meat of our Sudoku Solver, you will now write the `nextMove()` function which will attempt to find the next move to solve for an empty square. This function will take in four arguments which are: 

the grid (`grid`)

a boolean `silent`

an integer `depth` 

a boolean `finish`

Obviously you know that `grid` is a our Sudoku board. But for the other arguments, first we have `silent` which determines if it prints out the move it makes or not. If we've successfully found a valid move,  the function will trigger `silent` to be true and allow us to print what that move was. `depth` is an integer intially set to 0 and determines if it's allowed to try guessing. If it `depth` is less than 2 (`depth < 2) , then guessing a move is allowed. Finally our `finish` boolean, initially set to `False`, is only set to `True` if we have found a solution that enables us to finish the rest of the grid to solve our Sudoku problem. The function header will be defined as such:

```python
def nextMove(grid,silent=False,depth=0,finish=False):
```



Now for defining this function, we will be using it in conjunction with our `findPossible()` function which we defined previously. To provide insight on the structure of this function, we will break it down into three possible clauses:

- 1) An easy iteration through all spots, checking if clearly only one value can exist for a particular square.
- 2) Checking by number: within each number we will check by row, column and box.
- 3) Guessing clause which will be the fallback guessing and checking mechinism (this segment uses a function called `testPossible()` which we have not yet defined)

Since we will be defining `testPossible()` later, context for this function will be provided. The premise behind the function `testPossible()` is that:

-  It checks if it can find a solution given a `grid`, and then a row-column pair with a value to try. 
-  If it finds a solution and `finish` is true, then it sets the `grid` to the solution so as to speed it up.

For this function, we will also be printing a particular prompt to display the move that was made for the user to see that is derived from each of the clauses listed above. Here are examples:

- If the the first clause found the next move, then this should be printed: 
  - `(8,9) -> 1  [Only possible]`
- If the second clause found the next move, then there are 3 possible options:
  - If found in row: `(3,9) -> 4  [Only in row]`
  - If found in column: `(9,2) -> 1  [Only in column]`
  - If found in box: `(6,9) -> 3  [Only in box]`
- If the third clause found the next move, then this would be printed:
  - `(7,9) -> 6  [Guessing and checking]`

