<!--title={guessing clause: testPossible()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:18}-->

<!--concepts{Functions}-->

# testPossible()

Here are some specific hints about how to approach this problem:

Step 1: Find a way to preserve the state of the grid

- You will have to figure out a way to preserve the state of the grid, even when we are storing the value `n` at the row, column pair (`r`, `c`). This is needed to ensure the board maintains itself, even if the user guesses wrong. (Hint: duplication of the board)

Step 2: Check if user's guess is correct

- Additionally, you will have to check if the user's guess is correct. You should be using a function you *completed* (big hint) earlier as part of achieving this. Also consider how you will update the grid if a solution has been found. 

Step 3: Duplicate the board

To duplicate the board we can use the built-in function `copy.deepcopy()`, which we must import the Python library `copy`.

Step 4: Check if user's guess succeeds on duplicate board

Once we input the user's guess into the duplicated board, we need to check if the duplicate will succeed. This is done through our function `complete()`,  which takes as arguments the grid (the duplicate in this case) and the integer `depth`. We will do this in an if-statement.

Step 5: If previous condition succeeds check if `finish` is true

If the condition succeeds, then all we need to do left is check if `finish` is true. If so, then we will copy `duplicate` back to grid since we now have a solution!




