<!--title={Code for List of Neighbors}-->

<!--concepts={lists.mdx}-->

<!--badges={Python:15,CreativeThinker:15}-->

### Spaces

##### Step 1: Coordinate Pairs

Spaces are represented by coordinates of the 2-D maze. Coordinates in two dimensions have a horizontal and a vertical component. In our case, we are going to store the row and column components as part of a **pair**. This keyword is critical in deciding which variable to use and how we select **tuples**. Tuples are sequences that store different fields as one object, which is invaluable for our purposes.

##### Step 2: Finding Adjacent Spaces

Given a space `space`, we can find the row of the `space` with `space[0]` (since the first part of the pair of coordinates represents the row) and column of the `space` with `space[1]`.  These indices correlate to vertical and horizontal movements, as in north, east, south, and west. Following this logic:

* The space to the north would be represented as  `(space[0] - 1, space[1])`, since the column stays the same, but the row moves up one. We subtract one since the index of the row above would be one less than the current row.
* The space to the south would be represented as  `(space[0] + 1, space[1])`, since the column stays the same and the row moves down one, shown by the addition of one.
* The space to the west would be represented as  `(space[0], space[1] - 1)`. Here, we remain in the same row, but move one column space left by subtracting one.
* The space to the east would be represented as  `(space[0], space[1] + 1)`. Finally, to move right, we move the column space by adding one, and the row remains unchanged.

### Code in Python

##### Step 1: Create List `spaces`

We have to create our list of spaces. We can use a Python **list** structure because we will be adding multiple space elements to the list. Remember that `spaces` are tuples; it is okay to have a list of tuples:

```python
spaces = list()
```

##### Step 2: Append Directions

When appending directions, we simply copy the code we had written in step 2 of the previous section and append the space. Here is how we would append north:

```python
spaces.append((space[0]-1, space[1]))  # Up
```

In a similar manner we can append the space to the south:

```python
spaces.append((space[0]+1, space[1]))  # Down
```

And to the left:

```python
spaces.append((space[0], space[1]-1))  # Left
```

And to the right:

```python
spaces.append((space[0], space[1]+1))  # Right
```