<!--title={Popping Explained}-->

<!--concepts={if_stmts.mdx,while_loops.mdx,lists.mdx,indexing_lists.mdx}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:25,Python:5}-->

**Step 1: Find the First Path and Storing Coordinates Code**

Here is the entire BFS pseudocode for your reference (this will be available on every Easy card):

```pseudocode
initialize a queue Q with start 
initialize a set V tracking visited spaces 

  while Q is not empty: # this section covers this line
    path = Q.pop()
    last = last node in path # to this line

    if last == end
      return path
    else if last is not in V
      for all spaces adjacent to last but not in V do
        newPath = array(path)
        newPath.append(adjacentSpace)
        add newPath to the queue
      V.add(last)
    return null
```

We always want to get the first path from our queue and use it for this iteration, but not for future iterations. We will use the `pop()` method to simultaneously get the first path for this iteration and remove it from the queue. 

The path variable holds our current known shortest path. Eventually, we will `pop` a path from the queue and discover that the path's last element is the `end` coordinate; at this moment, we can return this shortest path.

### Technicality with Tuples 

On the very first iteration, the queue only consists of starting coordinates (row, col). If the starting coordinates are `(4, 7)`, the queue would be `[(4, 7)]`. If we pop the first element from the queue, then what returns would be a tuple of coordinates (in this case, just the tuple `(4, 7)`). But, because the rest of the BFS algorithm depends on the path being a list of coordinates, we have to give special treatment in this case. So, we check if the first path in the queue just consists of the start coordinates. If so, we make the start tuple a list in order to conform with the rest of the algorithm. This will only occur on the very first iteration when the first path consists of just one tuple (the start coordinates). Otherwise, the program proceeds as normal, popping the first path in the list.

With the given path, we also get the last coordinates of the path using negative indexing: `path[-1]`. 

## Code in Python

```python
while len(queue) != 0:    
    if queue[0] == start:        
        path = [queue.pop(0)]  # Required due to a quirk with tuples in Python    
    else:
        path = queue.pop(0) 
    	last = path[-1]
```
Here, we can see that the `last` variable holds the last coordinate of the current path reached. 
This `last` coordinate signifies that we got this far! But, we have not yet found the path to the end. So, we take this `last` tuple and continue our search from it until we eventually find that our `last` tuple is the end coordinates.

We see here that the while-loop will terminate once our queue size reach 0. Remember that the queue holds a collection of paths that we want to check, once the size of the queue reaches 0, it means there are no more paths that we want to check. 