# Time and Space Analysis of Breath First Search

In this section we are going to perform an analysis of the runtime and space complexity of the BFS search. 

## Time complexity of BFS

We can perform an analysis of the BFS search by removing all unnecessary details of implementation and focus on what BFS is doing at its core. This would simplify and help get the higher level overview of the BFS.

There are three things that define the time complexity of BFS:

* In the beginning we had to create a list to track of visited nodes. This will take O(n) runtime. 


* Also, since we will be visitting each node in the graph there will be at most O(n) queue and dequeue operations each which takes O(1) cost. Therefore this step is also O(n)


* For every node we visit, we have to iterate through all its neighbors. At first glance this seemed to be O(n^2) because we are looping through all the neighbors of the nodes. This may be right, but  O(n^2) is too big of an upper bound and we can find a tighter upper bound for this.

We see that for every node we will have to check its neighbors. The number of edges (neighbors) that a node has is called the degree of that node.

*Let us denote the degree of node i to Di* . 

Therefore we can see that the total number of iterations we have to perform is the sum of all the degrees of each nodes. So the total number of iterations is *D0 + D1 + D2 + ... Dn*. What does this number sum to? Well i will be straightforward and tell you that this equals to 2|E|, where E is the number of edges in the graph. This is proven by the [*Handshaking lemma*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handshaking_lemma). 

Therefore the complexity of looping through the nodes and its neighbors is actually O(2E) = O(E) rather than O(N^2).

Finally our runtime is therefore O(E + N) , E is number of edges and N is number of nodes.

## Space (Auxiliary) Complexity

For this we just need an additional O(N) space to store our visited nodes array. So our space auxiliary complexity is O(N). 





























