<!--title={ReST API: Mongoose's Model.findById()}-->

<!--concepts={Rest API Reading Endpoint}-->

<!--badges={Web Development:10}-->

The `Model.findById(...)` function will find one object, but instead uses the URL path for fetching. We'll start with `/users` as the URL, but adds dynamic handling through an `Express`-provided approach called *route parameters*. If we want to indicate the Object ID, we can first add a `:` and then an ID variable.

```js
'/users/:_id'
```

The ID specified can be accessed through `req`, using `req.params`, the route parameters. This contains all the indicated parameters. We can access the specific `_id` value from `params`. Let's incorporate that in our HTTP request pattern. 

```js
app.get('/users/:_id', (req, res) => {
    const _id: req.params._id
})
```

Then we can follow with the `Model.findById(...)` function, which takes in just the `_id`, and use our `Promise` pattern because this function also returns a `Promise`.

```js
app.get('/users/:_id', (req, res) => {
    const _id: req.params._id
    
    User.findById(_id).then((user) => {
        res.send(users)
    }).catch((e) => {
        res.status(500).send()
    })
})
```

Now let's test this by creating another request on Postman labeled *Read user*. In the URL section, we can start by putting `localhost:3000/users`, but above, we specified that we do a specific search using the `_id`. Let's put in an object id from our table. The URL will look something like this `localhost:3000/users/5df8ae1270651e4470cce671`

After clicking 'Send', you should get back the corresponding object. Now let's try changing the URL to test not finding a user, but keeping the length to ensure that it's still an object ID. As expected, there was an empty response, but note that the status code was successful, `200`! However, we want to indicate that the user was not found with a 404 error. Let's add some conditionals in to indicate that.

```js
app.get('/users/:_id', (req, res) => {
    const _id: req.params._id
    
    User.findById(_id).then((user) => {
        if (!user) { /* empty response */
            return res.status(404).send()
        }
        
        res.send(users)
    }).catch((e) => {
        res.status(500).send()
    })
})
```

