<!--title={Rent Bikes}-->

<!--badges={Python:100}-->

<!--concepts={class_method.mdx, class_variables.mdx, none.mdx}-->

Now that we have stocked up our bike shop, let's go ahead and start renting!

Remember that customers can rent bikes on different basis with different pricing.

- Hourly basis: $5 per hour.
- Daily basis: $20 per day.
- Weekly basis: $60 per week.
- Family Rental: a promotion that can include from 3 to 5 Rentals (of any type) with a discount of 30% of the total price

Let's write `rentBikeOnHourlyBasis`, `rentBikeOnWeeklyBasis`,`rentBikeOnDailyBasis`.

For simplicity we assume that:

1. Any customer requests rentals of only one type i.e hourly, monthly or weekly
2. Is free to chose the number of bikes he/she wants
3. Requested bikes should be less than available stock.

In  `rentBikeOn...Basis`, we takes in parameter `n` , the number of bikes the customer wants to rent, print out some statements to the user, updates our stocks, and return the time that the customer rent the bike.

Since the three functions all do similar things, let's write a **general helper function `rentBike`** to accommodate for all the functionalities.

Hint: You can use the package `datetime` to track the time.

Write `rentBike`, and use it to complete  `rentBikeOnHourlyBasis`,  `rentBikeOnDailyBasis`,  `rentBikeOnWeeklyBasis`.

Your program should consider the following: when n is not a positive number, or if it is greater than the stock available. The function should return none when n is not valid, and the system should print out corresponding error messages. 

