## INLINE TAGS

### Grouping inline elements

Sometimes you need to wrap some text or other elements in a tag which does not inherently represent anything, for example, for styling purposes. <span> tag is exactly for this purpose. It is a generic inline container for phrasing content, which does not inherently represent anything. It can be used to group elements for styling purposes, or because they share attribute values. It should be used only when no other semantic element is appropriate.

Use `<span>` like this:

```html
 <p>Lorem ipsum <span>dolor sit amet</span>, consectetur adipisicing elit.</p>
```

For now, <span> may seem useless for you, but believe it's one of the most common usable tag in HTML.

 ### Pitfalls

Any number of spaces are displayed as one in the browser. These three paragraphs will look exactly the same in the browser:

```html
 <p>one. two. three<p>
 <p>one.    two.    three<p>
 <p>one.        two.        three<p>
```

HTML doesn't support hyphenation in words, as text editors do, in other words, all words are written entirely without splitting them.

Text takes up the whole width of the browser window. If you just write one long line in the HTML code, then in the browser it will be formatted, so that text will fit whole width of the window. If this text is wider than the browser's window, then a horizontal scroll bar would appear.

You can use a special character entity references. You can define them like this: `&name;` , where name - is a name of entity reference. Here is a few of them:

   » `&quot;` - double quotation mark (")
   » `&amp;` - ampersand (&)
   » `&apos;` - apostrophe (apostrophe-quote) (')
   » `&lt;` - less-than sign (<)
   » `&gt;` - greater-than sign (>)

Read more about these entities here:
  (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_XML_and_HTML_character_entity_references)