<!--title={BSTDelete() II}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:15,Python:5}-->

<!--concepts={Binary Search Tree Delete}-->

#### BSTDelete()

Due to the various cases when deleting a BST node, the `BSTDelete` function is a little more complex than `BSTSearch` and `BSTInsert`. However, don't be intimidated by the code; make certain you understand the process of deleting a node, because the code simply follows that logic. Let's take a look:

```Python
def smallestNode(curNode):
    inspectedNode = curNode
    while(inspectedNode.left is not None):
        inspectedNode = inspectedNode.left  #Go left as far as possible
    return inspectedNode
```

This is a helper function which will allows us to find the smallest node in a given node's subtree. The process is simple. We simply traverse down the node's left subtree, always choosing to visit the left child, until we reach a leaf. That leaf node is the smallest node and gets returned. As you can tell, we are chooisng the in-order predecessor node as our replacement in this code implementation.

```python
def BSTDelete(curNode, key):
    if curNode is None:
        return curNode
    if (key < curNode.key):
        curNode.left = BSTDelete(curNode.left, key)
    elif (key > curNode.key):
        curNode.right = BSTDelete(curNode.right, key)
```

In order to delete a node, we need to find it first! This process is the exact same as with `BSTSearch` and `BSTInsert`. We traverse down the left and right subtree of any given node until we reach the node we are looking to delete.

```python
else:  #found node to be deleted
        if curNode.left is None:  #Case 1
            tempNode = curNode.right
            curNode = None  #Delete node
            return tempNode
        elif curNode.right is None:  #Case 1
            tempNode = curNode.left
            curNode = None  #Delete node
            return tempNode
```

Here, we found the node and it falls under one of the two situations listed in Case 1: it is either a leaf, or only has one child. We do the appropriate replacement and deletion procedures. Notice that we "delete" a node by setting it to `None`.

```python
        #Internal Node Case:
        tempNode = smallestNode(curNode.right) #find smallest key node of right subtree
        curNode.key = tempNode.key
        curNode.right = BSTDelete(curNode.right, tempNode.key)
```

Finally, this is the case where the node in question has two children. We find its in-order predecessor node, replace its value with the predecessor's value, and delete the predecessor node from our tree.

Although `BSTDelete` seems complicated initially, if you read through it slowly, you will realize that it simply follows the logic of either the **Leaf/1 Child Case** or the **Internal Node Case**. Feel free to review the two cases if you're having trouble understanding the `BSTDelete` code.