### Open Addressing

The **open addressing** method has all the hash keys stored in a fixed length table. With this method a hash collision is resolved by **probing**, or searching through alternate locations in the array (the *probe sequence*) until either the target record is found, or an unused array slot is found, which indicates that there is no such key in the table. 

We use a hash function to determine the base address of a key and then use a specific rule to handle a collision. Each location in the table is either empty, occupied or deleted. 
- **Empty** is the default state of all spaces in the table before any data is ever stored.
- **Occupied** means that there is currently a key-value pair stored in the location. 
- **Deleted** means there was once a value stored in the space, but it has been marked deleted. Although deleted positions are treated the same as empty positions for the insert operations, those deleted positions are treated as occupied when doing data retrieval.


Below are the basic process of inserting a new key (*k*) using open addressing:

1. Compute the position in the table where *k* should be stored.

2. If the position is empty or deleted, store *k* in that position.

3. If the position is occupied, compute an alternative position based on some defined hash function.

The alternative position can be calculated using: 

- **linear probing:** distance between probes is constant (i.e. 1, when probe examines consequent slots);
- **quadratic probing:** distance between probes increases by certain constant at each step (in this case distance to the first slot depends on step number quadratically);
- **double hashing:** distance between probes is calculated using another hash function.

> A probe is simply the distance from your the current position that is being search to the previous position.
