<!--title={Creating a Listener Class}-->

<!--badges={Web Development:}-->

# Creating a Listener Class

Following the previous activity, we will create a class called **StdOutListener**, representing Standard Output Listener, and it will be a basic listener class that prints received tweets to a file. You will first create a constructor* __init__ to fetch the filename that the data will be sent to. 

*A constructor is a part of code for instantiating an object of a Class.

The StreamListener class also provides us with methods that we can override. With that, we will be using on_data and on_error methods. 

- The on_data method will take in the data that is streamed in from the StreamListener, which is reading in tweets, and allows us to work with that data. In this part:

  - Use a try and except statement to catch errors when trying to stream in the data.
  - When the stream is successful, you will write the data to the text file that you created in the init constructor. 
  - If the stream holds errors, an exception statement will be printed out.

  ```python
  def on_data(self, data):
    try:
     print(data)
     with open(self.fetched_tweets_filename, 'a') as tf:
       tf.write(data)
       return True
     except BaseException as e:
      print("Error on_data: %s" % str(e))
      return True
  ```
In the code above, you used a try-catch. Try-catch is a duo that is kind of like an if-else but for catching errors before your program crashes or does weird things.

- The on_error method will give us the error that is occurring. 

  - Print that output onto the screen.

  ```python
  def on_error(self, data):
    print(data)
  ```

Here is what your Python code should look like when constructing the definitions with the **StdOutListener** class in your **tweepy_streamer.py** file.

```python
class StdOutListener(StreamListener):
  def __init__(self, fetched_tweets_filename): 							#create constructor
    self.fetched_tweets_filename = fetched_tweets_filename
  
  def on_data(self, data):																	#take in streamed data
    try:																										#try when there's no error
      print(data)
      with open(self.fetched_tweets_filename, 'a') as tf:
        tf.write(data)
      return True
    except BaseException as e: 															#when there's an error
      print("Error on_data: %s" % str(e))
    	return True
 
	def on_error(self, data): 																#print the error occurring
    print(data)
```

In the code above, you created functions to help your code break down the  work. ``def`` is declaring a function in Python. 

Functions are basically a group of lines of code that does a very specific task. It is usually written before the main part of code to ensure that you'll be able to use it in the main code. It can help make your main function more cleaned up. Functions are definently what you should be doing in all your code to keep it organized and readable.

