Hello!

<!--title={BookKeeper}-->
<!--badges={Python:22}-->
<!--concepts={Lists.md,Tuples.md}-->

In most libraries, books are organized using a string of numbers and a letter. They have two parts to them, both separated by a space.

1. The Dewey decimal number is made up of three digits, followed by a period, then two numbers.
2. The call number starts with an uppercase letter followed by three digits.

We are going to write a program that reads in a bunch of these book number identifications. Then, we will accomplish two goals:

1. Assign their genre to them and store this information in a variable
2. Print out their distributions (the percentage of how many of that genre there was in all the numbers).

First, let's write the `main()` function. So we don't have to type out every type of genre there is, we can make a **list** that stores all classes of genres according to the Dewey decimal number system.

```python
genreClasses = [
        "Computer science, information & general works",
        "Philosophy & psychology",
        "Religion",
        "Social sciences",
        "Language",
        "Science",
        "Technology",
        "Arts & recreation",
        "Literature",
        "History & geography"
    ]
```

We need to read the numbers off of a file, so let's code a function to do that for us. This function `getNums()` will return a **list** whose elements are each of the numbers in the file. Let's store this list into a variables called `nums`

```python
nums = getNums()
```

Then, we need to assign those numbers to a genre for **goal 1**, one genre per number.

```python
genreData = getGenres(nums, genreClasses)
```

We also need the total count of all the numbers, so we can obtain distributions for **goal 2**. We can return two values by **unpacking** from a **tuple**, meaning we will need to return a **tuple** from `getGenres()`

```python
genreData, count = getGenres(nums, genreClasses)
```

Now, for **goal 2** we also need a function to print distributions. We need to divide the amount of each genre class with `count`, so we need to pass in `genres` and `count`. We also need `genreClasses` because we are printing the genres' names out, too.

```python
printDistributions(genreData, count, genreClasses)
```

