<!--title={Resource Creation Endpoints: Getting Started}-->

<!--concepts={Resource Creation Endpoints}-->

<!--badges={Web Development:10}-->

# Resource Creation Endpoints: Getting Started

We are going to practice the basics of resource creation by creating users that can use our application. Before we get started, let's install a few things to stay organized and to ease our job of creating the application.

###Nodemon

In the console, run ```npm i nodemon@latest_version --save-dev``` to install the developer dependency of nodemon. This will allow us to be able to use nodemon locally and when setting up our application on another server.

**Note:** Remember to replace "latest_version" with the actual version number

Then, we want to make sure we can easily use nodemon, so let's create a few scripts we will use later inside of **package.json** under "scripts":

```javascript
"start": "node src/index.js",
"dev": "nodemon src/index.js"
```

To test our server on a local port, we can run ```npm run dev``` in the console. To do the same for a hosted server, we can run ```npm run start```.

###Express

To be able to host our application, we are going to need the npm module **Express**. To install Express, run ```npm i express@latest_version``` in the console.

### File Organization

1. Remove and delete **mongodb.js**,  we will not need it anymore for this app.

2. Create **index.js** inside of the **src** folder. This is the file that will start out the application.

3. Create folder **models** inside of **src**. As the app will begin to grow bigger, it is a good idea to maintain good a directory structure that scales well.
4. Create **user.js** inside of **models**. Copy the entire user model from **mongoose.js** and paste it into **user.js**. We need to do this to repeatedly be able to create user objects.
   1. Think about which libraries you will need to require inside of **user.js**
   2. Make sure you export **User** at the bottom of the document
5. Do the same for **task.js** inside of **models**

**Note:** a certain library will not be needed in **mongoose.js** anymore

 