<!--title={Resource Creation Endpoints: Bringing Everything Together}-->

<!--concepts={Resource Creation Endpoints}-->

<!--badges={Web Development:20}-->

# Resource Creation Endpoints: Bringing Everything Together

This single line can configure any incoming json into an accessable object we can use as part of the request handler:

```javascript
app.use(express.json())
```

if you dump ```console.log(req.body)``` inside of **app.post()**, you will see the user you created in Postman in the console!

### Connecting Everything

```javascript
require('./db/mongoose')
const User = require('./models/user')
```

By simply grabbing **mongoose**, we are ensuring that the file runs and that mongoose connects properly to the database. We also want to be able to access the **user** file to create users for our application.

Now, here is the code for creating a new user and saving it to the database:

```javascript
app.post('/users', (req, res) => {
	const user = new User(req.body)
	
	user.save().then(() => {
		res.send(user)
	}).catch((e) => {
		res.status(400).send(e)
	})
})
```

1. We create a new user with the **req.body** that contains all the proper information we need from an incoming POST request.
2. We attempt to save the user and create a promise.
3. If the promise is fulfilled, the response handler sends back the user.
4. Otherwise, the response handler sends back an error message.

**Note:** the **status()** code is meant to raise one of several specified types of exceptions. Navigate to [this website](https://httpstatuses.com) to learn more about the different types of exceptions that exist.

### Conclusion

That's it! You learned how to create POST requests with data and how to handle them within your application, creating users based on the received parameters. Try to do the same thing with tasks instead of users to test your new skills.