<!--title={Working within a box: box()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{Indexing 2D Lists, For Loops}-->

# Working Within a Box


Step 1: Define variable to check if the square is empty.

Using a variable, check if the element in the square is empty. If it isn't, then check if the element is in `elems`. If it is, then remove it from `elems`.

Step 2: Append all non-zero elements into `elems`.

With our nested for-loop mechanism to iterate through all the elements inside a specified box, we just need to append all non-zero elements into `elems`. We will first use a variable `e`, denoted as the current element we are indexed at in a box:

```python
def box(grid,r_i,c_i):
	elems = list(range(1,10))
```



The reason for having this list `elems` that contains numbers 1-9 is because each box in a Sudoku board can *only* contain numbers from 1-9 without repeats. Thus, we will remove values in `elems` that exist in the specified box. Returning `elems` will provide a list of numbers still needed in the box to replace the empty elements.

Step 3: Write a nested-for loop to iterate through the rows.

Remember, since a box consists of 3 rows and 3 columns composed of 9 values, we will need a nested for-loop. You must be wondering, what is the range for iterating through our for-loops? The possible values passed in for `r_i` and `c_i` are in `range(0,3)`, implying that it can be any number from 0, 1, or 2. This is the case because the box is a 3x3 segment in our 9x9 Sudoku board. There are a total of 9 boxes within the Sudoku board. Thus, the range for our for-loops will be defined as such:

```python
	for r in range(r_i*3,r_i*3+3):
		for c in range(c_i*3,c_i*3+3):
```

Now, consider we want to check the first box (the top left box in a Sudoku board). The values of `r_i` and `c_i` passed into the function would be 0 and 0. If we plug that into our for-loops, it would look like this:

````python
	for r in range(0*3,0*3+3):
		for c in range(0*3,0*3+3):
````

We could see that for `r` and `c`, we would loop from 0 to 2 and cover all the elements within the first box: (0,0), (0,1), (0,2), (1,0), (1,1), (1,2), (2,0), (2,1), and (2,2). Remember that `range(0,3)` means we iterate from 0 to 2, not 0 to 3.

Our function will now look like this:

```python
# This returns all elements in a given box
def box(grid,r_i,c_i):
	elems = list(range(1,10))
	for r in range(r_i*3,r_i*3+3):
		for c in range(c_i*3,c_i*3+3):
			# implement logic in here
```

Step 4: Check if element `e` is a non-zero.
Given `e`, the current element in our nested for-loop, we will now check if it is a non-zero and exists inside of `elems`. If both cases are true, then we will remove the value, denoted by `e`, from `elems`.

```python
if e != 0 and e in elems:
  elems.remove(e)
```
Step 5: Return `elems`.

Lastly, we just return `elems` after iterating through our entire nested for-loop, and `box()` is done!

```python
# This returns all elements in a given box
# 9 boxes will be iterated.
def box(grid,r_i,c_i):
	elems = list(range(1,10))
	for r in range(r_i*3,r_i*3+3):
		for c in range(c_i*3,c_i*3+3):
			e = grid[r][c]
			if e != 0 and e in elems:
				elems.remove(e)
	return elems
```

