<!--title={Working within a square: findPossible()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{Indexing 2D Lists}-->

# findPossible() Function

Step 1: Confirm that the current square is '0'.

The first step is to confirm that the current square we are on is the number '0'. Otherwise, we do not need to find possible values for it, as it would be filled already:

```python
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
```

Step 2: `grid[r_i][c_i]` != 0 return an empty list.
If `grid[r_i][c_i]` does not equal 0, then the square already has a value, so we don't need to find possible values for it! Therefore, we will simply return an empty list to indicate that there are no possible values for our current square (`r_i`, `c_i`):

```python
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
    # Implement logic here for finding possible values
  else:
    return []
```

Step 3: Search through the boxed and eliminate duplicate values.

We know that we can fill the empty square if we deduce that it can't have any of the values within the same box, row, or column. Thus, we will search through those areas respectively and eliminate those values. Similar to our implementation of `box()`, we can build a list called `possible`, which will hold values from 0 to 9. As we search through the rows, columns, and within our box, we will remove values found in `possible`. 

First, we will initialize `possible` as such:

```python
possible = list(range(1,10))
```

Step 4: Write four for-loops to iterate through the same row, column, and box in order to search values.

Given that we have `r_i` and `c_i`, the location of our square, we can use this information to iterate through the same row, column, and box to search for values using a for-loop. 

We will have a total of four for-loops: one for-loop to search through all the values in the same row, one for-loop to search through all the values in the same column, and two for-loops to search through all the values within the same box as our square. This will be the structure of the necessary for-loops:

```python
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
		possible = list(range(1,10))
		for c in range(0,9):
      # Implement logic here to find all values in same row
		for r in range(0,9):
      # Implement logic here to find all values in same column
		for r in range(0+r_i//3*3,r_i//3*3+3):
			for c in range(0+c_i//3*3,c_i//3*3+3):
        # Implement logic here to find all values within box
  else:
   return []
```

Notice that for the nested for-loop needed to search for our box, we use `range(0+r_i//3*3, r_i//3*3+3)` and `range(0+c_i//3*3, c_i//3*3+3)`, allowing us to check all of the elements within our box. Suppose that we find all possible values in our box given that we are on the square at (3, 3). Then, `r_i` = 3 and `c_i` = 3. Thus, our range would be:

```python
for r in range(0+3//3*3, 3//3*3+3): 
			for c in range(0+3//3*3, 3//3*3+3):
```

This would evaluate to:

```python
for r in range(3, 6): 
			for c in range(3, 6):
```

So, we would check these squares: (3, 3), (3, 4), (3, 5), (4, 3), (4, 4), (4, 5), (5, 3), (5, 4,), (5, 5). This covers all squares within the same box as (3, 3). and is similar to the loops used for `box()`.

The final list `possible` will only contain all POSSIBLE values that our empty square could be replaced with.

Step 5: Implement final logic to traverse through the row, column and box.

Now all that's left is to implement the logic needed to traverse through the row, column, and box of the square to eliminate already-existing values. 


Step 6: Define variable `e`.

To check for all values within the same row of the square, we will define a variable `e`. This variable will be assigned to each value in the same row as our square (`r_i`, `c_i`) to be removed from `possible` if `e` is not equal to 0 and exists in `possible`:

```python
# Row		
for c in range(0,9):
  e = grid[r_i][c]
  if e != 0 and e in possible:
    possible.remove(e)
```

Notice that `r_i` is fixed while we iterate through `c` from 0 to 8 to cover all values within the same row (`r_i`) as our square.

Step 7: Find values that exist in the same column as our square.

Similarly, we will apply the same logic to find all the values (to be removed from `possible`) within the same column as our square:

```python
# Col
for r in range(0,9):
  e = grid[r][c_i]
  if e != 0 and e in possible:
    possible.remove(e)
```

The only difference is that we will be iterating from 0 to 8 through `r` to cover all values within the same column (`c_i`) as our square.

Step 8: Iterate through the values defined in the range for `r` and `c` as `e=grid[r][c]`.

Lastly, we will be checking through all values within the same box as our square. Since we already have the implementation for our nested for-loop, we just iterate through values defined by our range for both `r` and `c` such that `e = grid[r][c]`:

```python
# Box
for r in range(0+r_i//3*3,r_i//3*3+3):
  for c in range(0+c_i//3*3,c_i//3*3+3):
    e = grid[r][c]
    if e != 0 and e in possible:
      possible.remove(e)
```

Step 9: Return `possible`.

After searching for all possible values by eliminating existing values within the same row, column, and box from `possible`; we will just return `possible`. This list will only contain values that can be used in our current square (`r_i`, `c_i`). Then, our final `findPossible()` function will look like this:

```python
# This finds all possible values for a square by eliminating those in the box that
# it's in, the row, and the column (naive)
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
		possible = list(range(1,10))
		# Row
		for c in range(0,9):
			e = grid[r_i][c]
			if e != 0 and e in possible:
				possible.remove(e)
		# Col
		for r in range(0,9):
			e = grid[r][c_i]
			if e != 0 and e in possible:
				possible.remove(e)
		# Box
		for r in range(0+r_i//3*3,r_i//3*3+3):
			for c in range(0+c_i//3*3,c_i//3*3+3):
				e = grid[r][c]
				if e != 0 and e in possible:
					possible.remove(e)
		return possible
	else:
		return []
```

