<!--title={Attempting to find the next move: nextMove()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:60}-->

<!--concepts{Functions}-->

# nextMove()

Moving on to the meat of our Sudoku Solver, you will now write the `nextMove()` function, which will attempt to find the next move to solve an empty square. This function will take in four arguments: 

- the grid (`grid`)
- a Boolean `silent`
- an integer `depth` 
- a Boolean `finish`

Evidently, you know that `grid` is our Sudoku board. But, for the other arguments, we have `silent` to determine if it prints out the move it makes or not. If we've successfully found a valid move, the function will trigger `silent` to be True and let us print what that move was. `depth` is an integer intially set to 0 and determines if it can try guessing. If `depth` is less than 2, then guessing a move is permitted. Finally, our `finish` Boolean, initially False, is only set to True if we have a solution enabling us to finish the grid to solve our Sudoku problem. The function header will be defined as such:

```python
def nextMove(grid,silent=False,depth=0,finish=False):
```



As for defining this function, we will be using it in conjunction with our `findPossible()` function. To provide insight on the function's structure, we will break it down into three possible clauses:

- 1) An easy iteration through all spots, checking if only one value can exist for a particular square.
- 2) Checking by number: within each number, we will check by row, column, and box.
- 3) Guessing clause, which will be the back-up guessing and checking mechanism (this segment uses a function called `testPossible()`, which is currently undefined).

Since we will be defining `testPossible()` later, context for this function will be provided. The premise behind the function `testPossible()` is that:

-  It checks if it can find a solution given a `grid`, and then a row-column pair with a value to try. 
-  If it finds a solution and `finish` is true, then it sets the `grid` to the solution to speed it up.

For this function, we will also be printing a particular prompt to display the move made for the user. This is to see that it is derived from each of the clauses listed above. Here are some examples:

- If the first clause found the next move, then this should be printed: 
  - `(8,9) -> 1  [Only possible]`
- If the second clause found the next move, then there are 3 possible options:
  - If found in row: `(3,9) -> 4  [Only in row]`
  - If found in column: `(9,2) -> 1  [Only in column]`
  - If found in box: `(6,9) -> 3  [Only in box]`
- If the third clause found the next move, then this would be printed:
  - `(7,9) -> 6  [Guessing and checking]`

