<!--title={guessing clause: testPossible()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:18}-->

<!--concepts{Functions}-->

# testPossible()

Here are some specific hints on how to approach this problem:

Step 1: Find a way to preserve the state of the grid.

- You will have to find a way to preserve the state of the grid, even when storing the value `n` at the row, column pair (`r`, `c`). This is needed to ensure the board maintains itself, even if the user guesses wrong. 

  (Hint: duplication of the board)

Step 2: Check if the user's guess is correct.

- Additionally, you will have to check if the user's guess is correct. You should be using a function you *completed* (big hint) earlier as part of achieving this. Also, consider how you will update the grid if a solution has been found. 

Step 3: Duplicate the board.

To duplicate the board, we can use the built-in function `copy.deepcopy()`, which we must import from the Python library `copy`.

Step 4: Check if the user's guess succeeds on a duplicate board.

Once we input the user's guess into the duplicated board, we need to check if the duplicate will succeed. This is done through our function `complete()`,  which takes the grid (the duplicate in this case) and the integer `depth` as arguments. We will do this in an if statement.

Step 5: If the previous condition succeeds, check if `finish` is True.

If the condition succeeds, then all we need to do left is check if `finish` is True. If so, we will copy `duplicate` back to grid, as we now have a solution!




