<!--title={guessing clause: testPossible()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{Functions}-->

# testPossible()


Step 1: Name the grid storing variable.

In our code, we name the variable storing the grid copy `duplicate`.

Step 2: Check if `duplicate` will succeed.
Once we input the user's guess into `duplicate`, we need to check if `duplicate` will succeed. This is done through our function `complete()`,  which takes the grid (`duplicate` in this case) and the integer `depth` as arguments. We will do this in an if statement as seen below:

```python
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
```

As of now, our function will look like this all together:

```python
def testPossible(grid,r,c,n,depth,finish):
	duplicate = copy.deepcopy(grid)
	duplicate[r][c] = n
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
```

Step 3: Check if `finish` is true.
If the condition above succeeds, then all we need to do is check if `finish` is true. If so, then we will copy `duplicate` back to grid since we now have a solution!

Step 4: Create a duplicate board to avoid infringing on our current board.

At this point, we are attempting to test solutions to solve our Sudoku puzzle. It is in our best interest to create a duplicate board to not infringe on our current one. If the solution is true, then we should copy our duplicate board to the original. Otherwise, if we just tested solutions on our original board, then the code becomes more complicated. 

On the condition that `complete()` returns True in our if statement, we will check if `finish` evaluates to True also: 

```python
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
		if finish:
```

Step 5: Make the duplicate board the main grid.

We know that `duplicate` was successful in completion, so we want `dup` to be our `grid` since `dup` is now the solution. If the solution we are testing works, then `finish` will be true.

Step 6:  Check if `finish` is true.

We simply need to check if `finish` is true, which means the tested solution is true and we can copy over our duplicate board. Thus, we will use a nested for-loop to overwrite all the values in `grid` with `dup`:


```python
			for r in range(0,9): //Iterate through each row and column
				for c in range(0,9):

					grid[r][c] = dup[r][c] //Copy our duplicate grid to our actual grid

```
Step 7: Return True.

Now, we just return True if we succeeded; otherwise, return False. Therefore, our final `testPossible()` function will appear as below:

```python
# Checks if it can find a solution given a grid, and then a row-column pair with a value to try.
# If it finds a solution and finish is true, then it sets the grid to the solution so as to speed it up.
def testPossible(grid,r,c,n,depth,finish):
	dup = copy.deepcopy(grid) //Copies our actual grid and makes a duplicate 
	dup[r][c] = n 
	if complete(dup,depth):
		if finish: //If successful, we want to copy the duplicate board to our actual board
			for r in range(0,9): 
				for c in range(0,9):
					grid[r][c] = duplicate[r][c]
		return True
	else: //If false, then we don't want to copy it over. 
		return False
```

Step 8: Check if `finish` evaluates to True.
On the condition that `complete()` returns True in our if statement, we will check if `finish` evaluates to True as well: 

```python
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
		if finish:
```
