<!--title={user input: main() part 1}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{User Input}-->

# main() Part 1

Step 1: Check if the length of `grid` is indeed 0.

This is to confirm that we are ready to wait for a user-inputted Sudoku board. We will also create a temporary grid `tempGrid`, which is defined as an empty list used to store the user's input. 

Step 2: Assign `grid` as `tempGrid`.

After we confirm that `tempGrid` is a valid Sudoku board, we will assign `grid` as `tempGrid`. We will also initialize an empty string `data`, or the string that holds the 81 characters inputted by the user:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
```

Since we want to check if the user inputted 81 characters, that will be the condition we use for our while-loop when accepting user input:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
```

Then, we will output the prompt to the user `"Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: "` as we request for input:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
		tempGrid = []
		data = input("Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: ")
```
Step 3: Implement the necessary checks to determine a valid `grid`.

`data` now contains the string that the user inputted, so we just need to implement the necessary checks to determine a valid `grid` with if and else statements. We want to make sure there are no repeated values in every column and row. We also want to check if the input size is correct. If the input is correct, we will display an error message telling the user why their input is invalid. 

> Hint: Check the size of `data` first. If it is indeed 81 characters, then store it into `tempGrid` and confirm if `tempGrid` is valid.

We will first check if the length of `data` is 81 or not, similar to our while-loop condition. If `data` is not of 81 characters long, we will print `"Not 81 characters"`. Otherwise, we will move on to our next check:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
		tempGrid = []
		data = input("Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: ")
		if len(data) != 81:
			print("Not 81 characters.")
		else:
```
