 <!--title={Data Analysis}-->

<!--badges={Web Development:}-->

# Data Analysis

Now that our data is all organized onto the Dataframe, we will now analysis it.

1. First, let's see how many ***tweets* are *retweets***. This code will give you the percentage of retweets within your set of tweets. Think of  the `{}` as math expressions (i.e whatever is inside you imagine we evaluate them like regular python expressions) that are embedded in our print statements. So `{round(len(RT_tweets)/len(tweets)*100)}%`, rounds the percent ratio of retweets over the total number of tweets in our dataset.

   ```python
   #See the percentage of tweets from the initial set that are #retweets:
   RT_tweets = tweets[tweets['RT'] == True]
   print("The percentage of retweets is {round(len(RT_tweets)/len(tweets)*100)}% of all the tweets")
   ```

   You will notice that you will get a somewhat high percentage in retweets. This indicates that most users do not produce their own content but instead forward content from other users.

   

2. Next, we will analyze how many *tweets* are downloaded from the Streaming API that are **replies to *tweets*** of another user.

   ```python
   #See the percentage of tweets from the initial set that are replies #to tweets of another user:
   Reply_tweets = tweets[tweets['Reply'].apply(type) == str]
   print(f"The percentage of retweets is {round(len(Reply_tweets)/len(tweets)*100)}% of all the tweets")
   ```

   You will notice that the percentage is low since a small percentage of users reply to other users' tweets.

   

3. Now lets see the percentage of tweets that have **mentions but are not retweets**. Note that these *tweets* include the previous reply tweets. The tweets with mentions that are not replies or retweets are just tweets that include said mention somewhere in the middle of the text. Think of `~` as a not operator and the `&` as the and operator. So the expression `~tweets['text'].str.contains("RT")` is equivalent to saying: "get the tweet Data Frame's text column and only get those tweets  who don't who aren't retweets(which are marked by an RT in the text)". A similar idea can be extended to `tweets['text'].str.contains("@")`

   ```python
   #See the percentage of tweets from the initial set that have #mentions and are not retweets:
   mention_tweets = tweets[~tweets['text'].str.contains("RT")  & tweets['text'].str.contains("@")]
   print("The percentage of retweets is {round(len(mention_tweets)/len(tweets)*100)}% of all the tweets")
   ```



4. Lastly, lets see how many *tweets* are just **plain text *tweets***, with no mention or retweets. This the same as the above code with the only exception that we add another negation or not operator to the first expression and swapped around their places!

   ```python
   #See how many tweets inside are plain text tweets (No RT or mention)
   plain_text_tweets = tweets[~tweets['text'].str.contains("@")  & ~tweets['text'].str.contains("RT")]
   print("The percentage of retweets is {round(len(plain_text_tweets)/len(tweets)*100)}% of all the tweets")
   ```



With all of these percentage, we will now plot it and create a visualization. Continue to the next part of the activity to create the visualization.