<!--title={Linked Lists}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:10}-->

<!--concepts={Node Implementation}-->

### The Node

Below is a simple implementation of a `Node` class (a representation of the `Node` objects in a linked list). 

```python
class Node(object):
    def __init__(self, data):
        self.data = data
        self.next_node = None
```
The node is where data is stored in the linked list; if a pearl was hollow and contained a bead inside, the bead would be the data. Along with the data, each node also holds a **pointer** which is a reference to the next node in the list. Note: if it was a doubly linked list, the reference to the previous node would be a pointer too. 

The node's data is initialized with data received at creation, and its pointer is set to None by default since the first node to be inserted into the will wouldn't have any other node to point to.

Each `Node` object contains data that can be retrieved via the `get_data` function and can get or set the next node via the functions `get_next` and `set_next` respectively.

After implementing the class `Node`, then we can begin to implement functions to help with retrieving information about the specified `Node` object.

- The function `get_data` will return whatever data is stored in the current `Node` object.
- The function `get_next` will return the location of the node that comes next.
- The function `set_next` will reset the next node to a new node.

```python
    def get_data(self):
        return self.data

    def get_next(self):
        return self.next_node 

    def set_next(self, new_next):
        self.next_node = new_next
```

**Note: `next_node` is a pointer to another `Node` object! It's not its own node!**
 
Now to create actually create our linked list and a node for it...

```python
film = LinkedList()
film.head = Node(900)
```
Inserting the following Nodes will be almost as easy!
