<!--Title={Zoologist Explained}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:60}-->

<!--concepts{Sorting Algorithms, Dictionaries}-->

**Step 1**: First we initiate the function `readFileintoDict()`

```python
def readFileintoDict():
```

**Step 2**: Since it's given that the file name is `"Animals.txt"`, we make a string to easier call this file name later.

```python
    filename= "Animals.txt"
```

**Step 3**: To parse through the file, we use the `open` funciton with a loop. Note that now the txt document is now refered to as **file** in the loop. The `'r'` means we will only be reading the file.

```python
    with open(filename, 'r') as file:
```

**Step 4**: Then we initialize our dicitonary by first having it blank.

```python
        result = {}
```

**Step 5**: We want a counter to iterate through the file so we create a counter that starts at 0.

```python
        index = 0
```

**Step 6**: Now we want to parse through each line of the file, this statement below will split the line into different  components based on the split factor, "\n" (new line).

```python
        for line in file.read().split("\n"):
```

**Step 7**: We want to ignore the whitespaces in the file that was used to format it. Therefore we will be splitting according to , "\t" (tab).

```python
            noTabs = line.split("\t")
```

**Step 8**: Now we want to extract the name of the animal from the rest of the line. We index `noTabs` with the length of the list minus one, since the last element will be at the index value one less than the length value (the first index is 0).

```python
            lastElement = noTabs[len(noTabs) - 1]
```

**Step 9**: Assign the index as the key and the name of the animal as the value.

```python
            result[index] = lastElement
```

**Step 10**: Increase our counter by one as we iterate through the document, putting each animal in the dictionary.

```python
            index += 1
```

**Step 11**: Once the whole file is iterated through, return `result` which is the dictionary we have created.

```python
    return result
```

