<!--Title={Writing Array Explained}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{Arrays}-->

To code our input parsing part, we will have a boolean variable called `invalidInput` and initialize its value as `True`.

```python
invalidInput = True
```
Think about why we want to set this boolean value to `True` in the beginning and what it means before continuing forward.

Initially we would have the `invalidInput` variable to signify whether or not the user has given an invalid input. Because in the beginning our user has not given any input (because we have not prompt them for any input) , we would consider the input to be invalid and set the value to be `True`. 

The rest of this part will be enveloped in a while loop that will stop once a valid input has been entered.



```python
while (invalidInput):
```

Here we print out the prompt for the user and set up the **input** to be taken in.

```python
    print("Please chose a sorting method:")
    print("1.(Bubble) Sort")
    print("2.(Insertion) Sort")
    print("3.(Selection) Sort")
    x=input("")
```

Following that are our **if-else** statements that are written according to the prompt. `If` any of these if statements are satisfied then we will set the boolean variable `invalidInput` to False, this means that our input is valid and therefore we will terminate from the while loop.

If any of the prompt is not satisfied then the `invalidInput` variable remains True and we will repeat the loop for user prompt again.

**note: ** remember what we are checking against in the user prompt. We want to receive the correct sorting algorithm of choice from the user. So our conditions should check if the user has inputted a valid sorting algorithm such as `"bubble"` or `"selection"` , or their resepective numbering `1` for bubble sort, `2` for insertion sort, etc. Anything else other than this should be considered an invalid input, thus why we have the `else` section for the condition.  

```python
    while(invalidInput):
    
        #write the user prompt here as mentioned before
    
        if(x=="1"or x=="bubble"):
            #perform bubble sort here
            invalidInput=False
        elif(x=="2"or x=="insertion"):
            #perform insertion sort here
            invalidInput=False
        elif(x=="3"or x=="selection"):
            #perform selection sort here
            invalidInput=False
        else:
            print("Not a valid input, try again.")
```