<!--title={Streaming and Processing Class}-->

<!--badges={Web Development:}-->

# Streaming and Processing Class

In this part of the activity, we will now start writing the code for the Tweepy application. Start off by creating a new Python file named **tweepy_streamer.py**. 

1. Next, we will import the Tweepy module, which you should have installed in the previous part of the activity, into the file to allow us to use its commands in our file. Import the module at the very top of your Python file.

```python
from tweepy.streaming import StreamListener
from tweepy import OAuthHandler
from tweepy import Stream
import twitter_credentials
```



2. Moving along, we will create a **TwitterStreamer** class to stream and process live tweets. Then define a class method to stream in the tweets called **stream_tweets**. This method will take in self, fetched_tweets_filename, and hash_tag_list. The fetched_tweets_filename parameter will be the text file name where your tweet data will be stored and the hash_tag_list parameter will be the hashtag filtering keyword.

```python
class TwitterStreamer():
  def stream_tweets(self, fetched_tweets_filename, hash_tag_list)
```



3. Next, we will handle Twitter authentication and the connection to the Twitter API. To do so, we will need to create the `auth` variable to authenticate using the credentials we have in the **twitter_credentials.py** file. We will use the OAuthHandler from the Tweepy module to authenticate our "Consumer Key" and "Consumer Secret". To complete the authenication process, we will set the access token to the "Access Token" and "Access Token Secret" from that same file. 

```python
listener = StdOutListener()
auth = OAuthHandler(twitter_credentials.CONSUMER_KEY, twitter_credentials.CONSUMER_SECRET)
auth.set access_token (twitter_credentials.ACCESS_TOKEN, twitter_credentials.ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET)
```


4. Next, we will create a stream using the **Stream** class from the Tweepy module and pass in the auth and listener objects. 

```python
stream = Stream(auth, listener)
```



5. We will also filter tweets with specific keywords when streaming in the data. To do so, we will use "track" to track those keywords, which is provided through the hash_tag_list parameter. 

```python
stream.filter(track = hash_tag_list)
```



Here is what the Python code should look like in your **tweepy_streamer.py** file under your **TwitterStreamer** class.

```python
class TwitterStreamer():
  def stream_tweets(self, fetched_tweets_filename, hash_tag_list)
  
  #Twitter Authentication
	listener = StdOutListener()
  auth = OAuthHandler(twitter_credentials.CONSUMER_KEY, twitter_credentials.CONSUMER_SECRET)
  auth.set access_token (twitter_credentials.ACCESS_TOKEN, twitter_credentials.ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET)
  
  stream = Stream(auth, listener) 		 # create Stream class
 	stream.filter(track = hash_tag_list) # filter keywords
```
