<!--title={Visualizing Tweets}-->

For this lab, we will be analyzing tweets using Twitter's API and `tweepy` package in Python by creating a Word Cloud to observe the frequency of words being used in a celebrity's tweets.

Analyzing the words used by a celebrity in an increasingly cluttered social media world has many uses. 

In this day and age, having a prominent social media presence can mean the difference for celebrities' public persona. A celebrity can use social media to generate excitement from millions of fans on Twitter, and if done right, propel their fame to new heights. Conversely, celebrities have to be careful about what they post on a site like Twitter, because one offensive tweet will get viral for the wrong reasons and destroy their reputation, not just in social media but in real life as well. Therefore, the words that celebrities choose when tweeting are vitally important, to cultivate an online persona and propel their own fame. Seeing the most common words in their tweets can help us find common trends in their tweets and determine what kind of persona they wish to conjure on social media. 

To do this in Python using `tweepy`, you should start off by importing our necessary libraries. The libraries we will be using are:

`tweepy`, `pandas`, `sys`, `csv`, `WordCloud` and `STOPWORDS` from `wordcloud`, `matplotlib`, `matplotlib.pyplot`, `string`, `re`, `PIL`

The next thing we want is to be able to use the python-twitter API client.  To do that, you need to acquire a declare a set of application tokens. Name the tokens `consumer_key`, `consumer_secret`, `access_token_key`, and `access_token_secret`.

