<!--title={Add Two Numbers: The Algorithm}-->

Just like in normal math, we  would start by summing the least-significant digits, which is the head of `l1` and `l2`. Since each digit is in the range of `0…9`, summing two digits may "overflow". For example `5 + 7 = =12`. In this case, we need to set the current digit to `22` and bring over the `carry = 1` to the next iteration. `carry` must be either `0` or `1` because the largest possible sum of two digits (including the carry) is `9 + 9 + 1 = 19`.

The pseudocode for this process would be as follows:

- Initialize the current node to a dummy head of the returning list.
- Initialize `carry` to 0.
- Initialize `p` and `q` to the heads of `l1` and `l2` respectively.
- Loop through lists `l1` and `l2` until you reach both ends.
  - Set `x` to node `p`'s value. If `p` has reached the end of `l1`, set `x` to `0`.
  - Set `y` to node `q`'s value. If `q` has reached the end of `l2`, set `y` to `0`.
  - Set `sum = x + y + carry`.
  - Update `carry = sum / 10`.
  - Create a new node with the digit value of (`sum mod 10`) and set it to the current node's `next` node, then advance the current node to the `next` node.
  - Advance both `p` and `q`.
- Check if `carry = 1`, if so append a new node with digit `1` to the returning list.
- Return the dummy head's `next` node.

Note here that we use a dummy head to simplify the code. Without a dummy head, you would have to write extra conditional statements to initialize the head's value. Additionally, take care to consider the following special cases:

1. When one list is longer than the other.
2. When one list is null, which means an empty list.
3. The sum could have an extra carry of one at the end, which is easy to forget.