The `TwitterStreamer` class handles the authentication with Twitter and connecting to Twitter's Streaming API. It then connects the stream with the listener. 

```python
class TwitterStreamer():
    """
    Class for streaming and processing live tweets.
    """
    def __init__(self):
        pass

    def stream_tweets(self, fetched_tweets_filename, hash_tag_list):
        # This handles Twitter authetification and the connection to Twitter Streaming API
        listener = StdOutListener(fetched_tweets_filename)
        auth = OAuthHandler(twitter_credentials.CONSUMER_KEY, twitter_credentials.CONSUMER_SECRET)
        auth.set_access_token(twitter_credentials.ACCESS_TOKEN, twitter_credentials.ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET)
        stream = Stream(auth, listener)

        # This line filter Twitter Streams to capture data by the keywords: 
        stream.filter(track=hash_tag_list)
```



You can think of this process as analogous as going to Costco to buy groceries. (or any other store that requires membership) When entering Costco, we have to have a membership card in order to get in. After we enter, there is an endless amount of goods we can purchase, but we only want to purchase certain goods on our shopping list, not everything. We then leave Costco with the groceries we wanted.

Similarly, when getting access to tweets from Twitter's API, we first have to prove we are authorized to access this data with our keys and tokens. Once we have access, we have access to all tweets with our stream object, which takes as parameters our authorization and our listener. Our authorization in this analogy would be our membership card. Our listener would process all tweets into a file, so in this case, our listener would be our shopping cart. Therefore the stream object as a whole would be analogous to our access to all the goods in Costco, just like how through the stream object, we have access to all of Twitter data.

However, just like our shopping list, we don't want to get all tweets possible, only ones that fit our "shopping list" of hashtags. We can filter out the tweets we don't want by using `stream.filter()`. The tweets that contain our given hashtags will go in the file, our "shopping cart" of tweets.


