<!--title={Lots of Styling}-->

This should come as no surprise, but the application looks pretty ugly! So the next task will be to add styling, and make the URL Shrinker visually appealing.

You will not be writing your own CSS for this part. Instead, you will utilize Bootstrap. There is no need for any installation. Embed [BootstrapCDN](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/getting-started/download/ "BootstrapCDN") into `index.ejs`  so that we have a more compact version of the software immediately available. If you refresh the webpage, you will notice that some basic styling has already been applied, but you will add on to that.

For styling, you will perform the following tasks. Each task will require the use of Bootstrap **classes**:

- Wrap the entire body of the HTML code in a `container`. This will add some nice padding to the webpage.

- Style the form to use `my-4` and make it in-line. This will add more space and padding around the form, while still keeping the current shape of the form as you add more classes.

- Hide the label for the form by making it so that only screen-readers can see it. 

- Put a **required** placeholder inside the form (the input) simply called `Url`. This is just to make it explicitly clear that the text box only accepts URLs. Additionally, implement form control and a margin of 2. Finally, make the form take up the entire width of the webpage.

- Style the button to make it a "success" button. This will make the button green with white text.

- Style the table by first making it a striped table. Then, make it responsive. 


