
 #### Push elements (add elements)

 Since our stack is simply just a list as of now, we will now need to add the attributes which make it a stack. We still start off by defining the `push()` function which is for adding elements into our stack. 

 **Two Parameters:** 

 *self :*   which refers to our stack objects 

 *data* : which is the data element you wish to add into the stack.

 **Steps:**

 1. Use Python's `append` function to add element to the end of the list (which is the top of our stack) and return *True*. The reason why the `push()` function returns true is to ensure that our item has been added to the top (last index) of the stack.

 ```python
     #Adding elements to stack
     def push(self,data):
         self.stack.append(data)
         return True
 ```

 ---

 #### Pop element (take element out of stack)

 Now that we have the functionality to add to our stack, we must also have the ability to take elements out of our stack. Remember that stacks follow **LIFO (last-in first-out)** order which means the last element added in is the first element that gets removed. Our `pop()` function will be used to accomplish the removal of elements from our stack.

 **One Parameter:** 

 *self :*   which refers to our stack objects 

 **Steps:**

 1. Check if the length of our stack is less than or equal to zero in order to confirm if its empty or not. 
 2. If it is indeed empty, then we will return a print statement indicating that it's empty. 
 3. Otherwise, we know it is not empty. Use python `pop()` function, which will return the last element of the list (which is the top of our stack), and remove it.

 ```python
     #Removing last element from the stack
     def pop(self):
         if len(self.stack)<=0:
             return ("Stack Empty!")
         return self.stack.pop()
 ```
