<!--title={Printing all the Options}-->
<!--badges={Python: 10}-->
<!--concepts={For Loops, Print Statements}-->

Let's go through this program step-by-step!

The first thing we have to do is create a **list** of things we would like printed out. 

Create an **empty list** and store it into a **variable** called `options`

```python
options = []
```

Now add in elements of the menu into the **list**.

```python
options = ["Watch tv", "Go to the park", "Take out the trash"]
```

We want to print out each of those elements one-by-one, but how should we do it?

Sure we could print each value of the list individually, like

```python
print(options[0])
print(options[1])
print(options[2])
```

but what if there were 100 elements instead? 1000? Not only would it would be tedious to type out a print statment for each one, it would also make your code hard to read and would only apply specificly sized lists. 

We should instead use a **for loop** to help print out each option once, one after the other. This way, we can add more to `options`if we want and make our program more flexible.

```python
options = ["Watch tv", "Go to the park", "Take out the trash"]
for option in options:
    print(option)
```

This **for loop** will go through each element of the list and print it out, like this,

```
Watch tv
Go to the park
Take out the trash
```

before exiting the loop.

Wait! Look back at the desired result of the program. Don't forget that there is a small message printed above all of the options!

What do we do? It's simple, just add a **print statement** above everything with the message

`"Here is your list of options! Type "exit" to exit"`.

However, since there are multiple double quotation marks being used, we can't just copy and paste the message into a print statement. Instead we have to write it like this

`print("Here is your list of options! Type \"exit\" to exit")`.

We had to "escape" the inner quotes. Don't worry about that for now, though.

Your code should now look something like this

```python
print("Here is your list of options! Type \"exit\" to exit")
options = ["Watch tv", "Go to the park", "Take out the trash"]
for option in options:
    print(option)
```

This prints out the menu successfully, but it only does it once.

For our menu program to work properly, we need to continuously print out everything until we are prompted with "exit".