<!--title={Flexible option printing}-->
<!--badges={Python: 10}-->
<!--concepts={User Input, Print Statements, Casting}-->

Lets look at our code from part 1.

```python
options = ["Watch tv", "Go to the park", "Take out the trash"]
while (True):
    print("Here is your list of options! Type \"exit\" to exit")
		for option in options:
    		print(option)
    userIn = input()
    if (userIn == "exit"):
        break
print("Goodbye!")
```

To start, let's look at what changes need to be done for part 2. Even though our code now works perfectly well, it is restrictive. `options` is of a fixed size and there is no way  to add more options into our menu after we run our program. Our main goal now is to increase flexibilty in our prgram and allow the user to add or remove choices from the menu , making the program more personalized. Looking a our desired output, we also see that we have to have different paths for the code to take depending on which option the user inputs. We also now have to check that the inputs are appropriate because the requirements of the inputs are more restricting.

We can start by change the easier stuff first. Looking at the desired output, we can see that "Exit", "Add an option", and "Remove an option" will always be printed. Thinking back to part 1, we know that this means these three elements will be part of `options` so let's make that change right now. 

```python
options = ["Exit", "Add an option", "Remove an option"]
```

Another quick change are the print statments in the while loop. Since there are two seperate statments that need to be printed we just add another print statment into **while loop** and change the first statment to `"Here is your menu!"`, and the second to `"Pick a number 0-2"`.

Our code up to this point should look something like this:

```python
options = ["Exit", "Add an option", "Remove an option"]
while (True):
    print("Here is your menu!")
    print("Pick a number 0-2")
		for option in options:
    		print(option)
    userIn = input()
    if (userIn == "exit"):
        break
print("Goodbye!")
```

If we take a closer look at the sample output, we realize we have to add indices before each option on the menu! How can we do this? A simple way is by using a built in python function `enumerate()` which can easily track the indices  of each item. Python's `enumerate()` function is very useful since now we do not have to create a seperate variable just to account for the indices like in other coding languages.  

As of now, our code looks something like this: 

```python
options = ["Exit", "Add an option", "Remove an option"]
while (True):
    print("Here is your menu!")
    print("Pick a number 0-2")
		for i, option in enumerate(options):
      print(option)
    userIn = input()
    if (userIn == "exit"):
        break
print("Goodbye!")
```

Now that we have the indicies corresponding to each option, how are we going to print the menu? To properly print out each item we have to print the index followed by a period followed by a space followed by the option. We may be temped to try printing it like

```python
print(i + ". " + option)
```

However this results in an error with the code because we tried to **concatenate **(combine) an integer type, represented by `i` , with a string type, represented by `". "`.  We can easily fix this by **casting** (changing the type) `i` with  the `str()` function, which will turn it from an integer type to a string type. Looking to the rest of our code, we also need to do the opposite to `userIn`, wrapping `int()` around`input()`, since we will be taking in **integer** inputs now. 

Let's add one more print statement (that prints nothing) for readability right after the **for loop**. Don't forget to properly indent it so it is OUTSIDE the **for loop** but INSIDE the **while loop**.

After all the changes, your code should should resemble: 

```python
options = ["Exit", "Add an option", "Remove an option"]
while (True):
    print("Here is your menu!")
    print("Pick a number 0-2")
		for i, option in enumerate(options):
    		print(str(i) + ". " + option)
    print("")
    userIn = int(input())
    if (userIn == "exit"):
        break
print("Goodbye!")
```
