<!--title={Using the Stack}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:5,Python:5}-->

<!--concepts={Stack Manipulation}-->

---

# Fix last writing problems and explanations, interview questions



## Implement Stack using Queues

Implement the following operations of a stack using queues.

- push(x) -- Push element x onto stack.
- pop() -- Removes the element on top of the stack.
- top() -- Get the top element.
- empty() -- Return whether the stack is empty.

Example:**

```python
MyStack stack = new MyStack();

stack.push(1);
stack.push(2);  
stack.top();   // returns 2
stack.pop();   // returns 2
stack.empty(); // returns false
```

**Notes:**

- You must use *only* standard operations of a queue -- which means only `push to back`, `peek/pop from front`, `size`, and `is empty` operations are valid.
- Depending on your language, queue may not be supported natively. You may simulate a queue by using a list or deque (double-ended queue), as long as you use only standard operations of a queue.
- You may assume that all operations are valid (for example, no pop or top operations will be called on an empty stack).

## Issue

Normally, we can solve the problem by using stack. Now we can only use queue. So the rule of LIFO should be used in Queue, which follows FIFO.



### Solution

When add a elementary, we need to rotate the queue. We can do this by poll all the elements in queue, and add them to queue at the same time. 

```
 def push(self, x):
        q = self._queue
        q.append(x)
        for _ in range(len(q) - 1):
            q.append(q.popleft())
```





The rest are the basic operation of queue. 

So the soultion will be as following.

```
class Stack:

    def __init__(self):
        self._queue = collections.deque()

    def push(self, x):
        q = self._queue
        q.append(x)
        for _ in range(len(q) - 1):
            q.append(q.popleft())
        
    def pop(self):
        return self._queue.popleft()

    def top(self):
        return self._queue[0]
    
    def empty(self):
        return not len(self._queue)
```



### Running result

- Runtime: 16 ms, faster than 73.91% of Python online submissions for Implement Stack using Queues.

- Memory Usage: 11.8 MB, less than 33.33% of Python online submissions for Implement Stack using Queues.

### Reference

https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-stack-using-queues/

