<!--title={Working within a square: findPossible()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{Indexing 2D Lists}-->

# findPossible() Function


The first step is to confirm that the current square we are on is the number '0'. Otherwise we do not need to find possible values for it as it has been filled already:

```python
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
```

If `grid[r_i][c_i]` does not equal 0, then the square already has a value... so we don't need to find possible values for it! Therefore, we will simply just return an empty list to indicate that there are no possible values for our current square (`r_i`, `c_i`):

```python
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
    # Implement logic here for finding possible values
  else:
    return []
```

We know that we can fill in the empty square if we deduce that it cannot be any of the values that are within the same box, row, or column. Thus we will search through those areas respectively and eliminate those values. Similar to our implementation of `box()`, we can build a list called `possible` which will hold values from 0 to 9. As we search through the rows, columns, and within our box, we will remove values in `possible` that are found. 

First we will initialize `possible` as such:

```python
possible = list(range(1,10))
```

Given that we have `r_i` and `c_i` which is the location of our square, we can use this information to iterate through the same row, column, and box to search for values using a for-loop. 

We will have a total of 4 for-loops. One for-loop to search through all the values in the same row, one for-loop to search through all the values in the same column, and two for-loops to search through all the values within the same box as our square. This will be the structure of the necessary for-loops:

```python
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
		possible = list(range(1,10))
		for c in range(0,9):
      # Implement logic here to find all values in same row
		for r in range(0,9):
      # Implement logic here to find all values in same column
		for r in range(0+r_i//3*3,r_i//3*3+3):
			for c in range(0+c_i//3*3,c_i//3*3+3):
        # Implement logic here to find all values within box
  else:
   return []
```

Notice that for the nested for-loop needed to search for our box, we use `range(0+r_i//3*3, r_i//3*3+3)` and  `range(0+c_i//3*3, c_i//3*3+3)` which allows us to check all of the elements within our box. Suppose that we are find all possible values in our box given that we are on the square at (3, 3). Then `r_i` = 3 and `c_i` = 3. Thus, our range would be:

```python
for r in range(0+3//3*3, 3//3*3+3): 
			for c in range(0+3//3*3, 3//3*3+3):
```

which would evaluate to:

```python
for r in range(3, 6): 
			for c in range(3, 6):
```

So we would be checking these squares: (3, 3), (3, 4), (3, 5), (4, 3), (4, 4), (4, 5), (5, 3), (5, 4,), (5, 5)... this covers all of the squares within the same box as (3, 3). This is similar to the loops used for `box()`

The final list `possible` will only contain all POSSIBLE values that our empty square could be replaced with.

Now all that's left is to implement the logic needed to traverse through the row, colmn, and box of the square to eliminate values that already exist. 


To check for all the values within the same row of the square, we will define a variable `e` which will be assigned to each of the values in the same row as our square (`r_i`, `c_i`) to be removed from `possible` if `e` is not equal to 0 and exists in `possible`:

```python
# Row		
for c in range(0,9):
  e = grid[r_i][c]
  if e != 0 and e in possible:
    possible.remove(e)
```

Notice that `r_i` is fixed while we iterate through `c` from 0 to 8 in order to cover all of the values within the same row (`r_i`) as our square.

Similarly, we will apply the same logic to find all the values that exist (to be removed from `possible`) within the same column as our square:

```python
# Col
for r in range(0,9):
  e = grid[r][c_i]
  if e != 0 and e in possible:
    possible.remove(e)
```

The only difference is that we will be iterating from 0 to 8 through `r` to cover all the column values within the same column (`c_i`) as our square.

Last, we will be checking through all the values that exist within the same box as our square. Since we already have the implementation for our nested for-loop, we will simply just iterate through values defined by our range for both `r` and `c` such that `e = grid[r][c]`:

```python
# Box
for r in range(0+r_i//3*3,r_i//3*3+3):
  for c in range(0+c_i//3*3,c_i//3*3+3):
    e = grid[r][c]
    if e != 0 and e in possible:
      possible.remove(e)
```

After searching for all possible values by eliminating the existing values within the same row, column and box from `possible`; we will just return `possible` as this list will contain only the values that can be used on our current square (`r_i`, `c_i`). Then our final `findPossible()` function will look like this:

```python
# This finds all possible values for a square by eliminating those in the box that
# it's in, the row, and the column (naive)
def findPossible(r_i, c_i, grid):
	if grid[r_i][c_i] == 0:
		possible = list(range(1,10))
		# Row
		for c in range(0,9):
			e = grid[r_i][c]
			if e != 0 and e in possible:
				possible.remove(e)
		# Col
		for r in range(0,9):
			e = grid[r][c_i]
			if e != 0 and e in possible:
				possible.remove(e)
		# Box
		for r in range(0+r_i//3*3,r_i//3*3+3):
			for c in range(0+c_i//3*3,c_i//3*3+3):
				e = grid[r][c]
				if e != 0 and e in possible:
					possible.remove(e)
		return possible
	else:
		return []
```

