<!--title={guessing clause: testPossible()}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{Functions}-->

# testPossible()

We first need to duplicate our `grid` to preserve the original `grid` since we are modifying the duplicate by storing the value `n` at the square (`r`,`c`):

```python
def testPossible(grid,r,c,n,depth,finish):
	duplicate = copy.deepcopy(grid)
	duplicate[r][c] = n
```

Note that in order to use the built-in function `copy.deepcopy()`, one must import the Python library `copy`.

Once we input the user's guess into `duplicate`, we need to check if `duplicate` will succeed. This is done through our function `complete()`,  which takes as arguments the grid (`duplicate` in this case) and the integer `depth`. We will do this in an if-statement as seen below:

```python
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
```

As of now, our function will look like this altogether:

```python
def testPossible(grid,r,c,n,depth,finish):
	duplicate = copy.deepcopy(grid)
	duplicate[r][c] = n
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
```

If the condition above succeeds, then all we need to do left is check if `finish` is true. If so, then we will copy `duplicate` back to grid since we now have a solution!

At this point, we are attempting to test solutions to solve our Suduku puzzle. It is in in our best interests to create a duplicate board in order to not infringe on our current board. If the solution is true, then we know we should copy our duplicate board to the original board. Otherwise if we just tested solutions on our original board, then the code becomes much more complicated. 

On the condition that `complete()` returns True in our if-statement, we will check if `finish` evaluates to True also: 

```python
	if complete(duplicate,depth):
		if finish:
```


Then we know that `dup` was successful in regards to completion, so we now want `dup` to be our `grid` since `dup` is now the solution. If the possible solution we are testing works, then finish will be true. We simply need to check if finish is true, which means the solution we are testing is true and we can copy over our duplicate board. Thus we will use a nested for-loop to overwrite all the values in `grid` with `dup`:


```python
			for r in range(0,9): //Iterate through each row and column
				for c in range(0,9):

					grid[r][c] = dup[r][c] //Copy our duplicate grid to our actual grid

```

In the end of that we just return True if we succeeded and otherwise False. Therefore, our final `testPossible()` function will appear as below:

```python
# Checks if it can find a solution given a grid, and then a row-column pair with a value to try.
# If it finds a solution and finish is true, then it sets the grid to the solution so as to speed it up.
def testPossible(grid,r,c,n,depth,finish):
	dup = copy.deepcopy(grid) //Copies our actual grid and makes a duplicate 
	dup[r][c] = n 
	if complete(dup,depth):
		if finish: //If successful, we want to copy the duplicate board to our actual board
			for r in range(0,9): 
				for c in range(0,9):
					grid[r][c] = duplicate[r][c]
		return True
	else: //If false, then we don't want to copy it over. 
		return False
```

