<!--title={user input: main() part 1}-->

<!--badges={Algorithmns:36}-->

<!--concepts{User Input}-->

# main() Part 1

First we will check if the length of `grid` is indeed 0 to confirm that we are ready to await for a user inputted Sudoku board. We will also create a temporary grid `tempGrid` defined as an empty list which we will use to store the user's input. Eventually after we confirm that `tempGrid` is a valid Sudoku board, we will then assign `grid` as `tempGrid`. We will also initialize an empty string `data` which will be the string that holds the 81 characters inputted by the user:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
```

Since we want to check on whether or not the user inputted 81 characters, that will be the condition we use for our while-loop during the process of accepting the user input:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
```

Then we will output the prompt to the user `"Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: "` as we request for input:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
		tempGrid = []
		data = input("Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: ")
```

`data` now contains the string that the user inputted, so we just need to implement the necessary checks to determine for a valid `grid` with a series of if and else statements. We will want to check if the values are unique for each column and row and there is no repeats. We will also want to check if the input size is correct. If the input is correct, we will want to display an error message that tells the user why their input is invalid. 

> Hint: check the size of `data` first and if it is indeed 81 characters then, then store it into `tempGrid` and confirm if `tempGrid` is valid.

Our first check will simply be if the length of `data` is 81 or not,  similarly to our while loop condition. If `data` is not of length 81, we will print `"Not 81 characters"`, otherwise we will move onto our next check:

```python
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
		tempGrid = []
		data = input("Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: ")
		if len(data) != 81:
			print("Not 81 characters.")
		else:
```

Now that we know we have a total of 81 characters, we need to verify is this is even a valid Sudoku board. To do so we need to create the structure of our board which will be stored into `tempGrid`. Remember that programmatically, our Sudoku board is a list of of 9 lists where each list contains 9 elements (numbers). Thus, we will define an empty list called `r` and fill up each list with 9 elements at a time and append it to `tempGrid` such that `r` will be appended to `tempGrid` 9 times to get our entire Sudoku board:

```python
		else:
			for row in range(0,9):
				r = []
				for col in range(0,9):
					r.append(int(data[row*9+col]))
				tempGrid.append(r)
```

> Note: remember that the user input (stored in `data`) is a string, so we must type cast it to an int

Now that `data` is formatted into a 9x9 grid that was stored into `tempGrid` we can now verify if the user's inputted grid is valid by using our `isValid()` function. If `isValid()` returns True, we simply can do the assignment `grid = tempGrid`. Else, if `isValid()` returns False, we will print `"Invalid grid."` and reset `data` but assigning it as an empty string:

```python
			if not isValid(tempGrid):
				data = ""
				print("Invalid grid.")
				printGrid(tempGrid)


	grid = tempGrid
```

Thus, we have finished the first part of our UI for accepting the first user input from the user as seen below:

```python
# The UI, with options for entering grids, finding next moves, printing the current grid, finishing the grid, and printing out
# possible values for a row and column index
if len(grid) == 0:
	tempGrid = []

	data = ""
	while len(data) != 81:
		tempGrid = []
		data = input("Type in the grid, going left to right row by row, 0 = empty: ")
		if len(data) != 81:
			print("Not 81 characters.")
		else:
			for row in range(0,9):
				r = []
				for col in range(0,9):
					r.append(int(data[row*9+col]))
				tempGrid.append(r)
			if not isValid(tempGrid):
				data = ""
				print("Invalid grid.")
				printGrid(tempGrid)


	grid = tempGrid
```

