# Streaming and Processing Class

In this part of the activity, we will now start writing the code for the Tweepy application. Start off by creating a new Python file named **tweepy_streamer.py**. 

We will import the Tweepy module, which you should have installed in the previous part of the activity, into the file to allow us to use its commands in our file. Import the module at the very top of your Python file.

```python
from tweepy.streaming import StreamListener
from tweepy import OAuthHandler
from tweepy import Stream
import twitter_credentials
```

Notice that we imported our Twitter credentials from the previous part.

Moving along, we will create a **StdOutListener** class to stream and process live tweets. Notice that this class has the **StreamListener** class in parentheses, indicating that this class "inherits" from the StreamListener class. The StreamListener class is imported from the package `tweepy.streaming`, and is a general class that by default will "listen" to data from Twitter. 
 
```python
class StdOutListener(StreamListener):
```

By default, the StreamListener class has functions called `on_data` and `on_error`. Ultimately, we want to produce a "stream" of tweets by printing the tweets. If there is an error, we want to print the error as well. So we provide our own definitions of `on_data` and `on_error`:

```python
  def on_data(self, data):
    print(data)
    return True
  def on_error(self, status):
    print(status)
```

Currently as constructed, the listener will stream ALL tweets from Twitter in real-time. For the sake of this activity, we don't want to stream all tweets, we only want to stream tweets that include certain hashtags. We are going to create a Python **list** that contains all the hashtags we want in our streamed tweets:

```Python
tracklist = ["#Corona", "#Coronavirus", "#CDC"]
```
