# SQL injection

‘ or 1=1; -- 

##### Setup

Vulnerable services:

https://sqli.rkevin.dev/ (3 flags)

https://bsqli.rkevin.dev/ (1 flag)

Upon initial connection it will lag for ~10secs, this is normal, be patient!

If you want to automate requests, please include the cookies!

##### What is SQL?

- Structured Query Language

- Common language used to talk to a database

- - A lot of databases support the basic SQL syntax, from mysql/mariadb to postgresql to mssql…

- You can SELECT rows from “tables”

- - Each table has rows and columns. If you have a table of students, each row would be a student, and you would have columns like “first_name”, “last_name”, “age”, etc.

  - Syntax: SELECT column1,column2 FROM table; 

  - - This returns column1 and column2 from every row available

  - You can also filter the SELECT output

  - - SELECT * FROM users WHERE username=”blah” AND is_admin=1;

- You can also modify the database by using UPDATE and INSERT statements, but we don’t need to use it today.

- Capitalization of commands like SELECT don’t matter.

##### What is SQL injection?

- If you have a database of stuff you want to search through, you might be tempted to write SELECT * FROM table WHERE data=’$query’

- - where $query is the user input

- But what if the user input is not sanitized correctly?

- If $query contains a single quote, we can escape from the “data=” part and do whatever we want!

- If $query is abc’ OR otherstuff=’1

- SELECT * FROM table WHERE data=’abc’ OR otherstuff=’1’

- - Perfectly well-structured command! SQL will happily execute that.