# GDB commands

##### Stopping the program

You can type ‘break name’ to set a “breakpoint” at the function called “name”. You can also ‘break *0xaddr’ to break when it tries to execute the instruction at addr.

- When a program reaches a breakpoint, it stops execution and you can examine stuff
- Type “continue” to continue running the program, or “ni” to run to the next instruction
- To delete a breakpoint, use “delete #” where # is the breakpoint number.
- Finally, use ‘run’ to run the program!

You can abbreviate the above commands (‘b func’, ‘d 2’, etc). Also, you can use “disassemble” or “disas” to show a disassembly of the program, like objdump.

Let's set a breakpoint at 'strcmp'.

##### Examining registers and memory

Now we have stopped at ‘strcmp’!

On 64-bit binaries, function parameters are passed in registers. For functions with two arguments like strcmp, one is stored in ‘rsi’ and one in ‘rdi’. You can examine the registers and find out the arguments to the function!
- ‘info reg’

To examine a string in memory, try x/s

- e.g. ‘x/s 0xabcdef’

We’ve extracted the password from memory by using ‘x’!

‘x’ examines the memory, and the ‘/s’ tells it the memory its looking at is a string, and it should print it out as one

- You can tell ‘x’ to output it in some other format

  - ‘x/a’ assumes it’s looking at pointers
  - ‘x/x’ assumes it’s looking at 32-bit integers. I use this a lot!
  - ‘x/i’ assumes it’s looking at assembly instructions

You can also ask it to dump 32 integers by using ‘x/32x’. Same goes with everything else

Now try to examine stuff in ‘5_reading_memory’!