<!--title={Async/Await Intro}-->
<!--badges={Web Development:20}-->

Previously you had learned about **promise chaining** which allowed you to chain multiple **asynchronous** promises together, however this can become very convoluted and hard to keep track of very fast. Additionally, promises also make it difficult to have all the value sin the same place.

A syntax that helps overcome these promise chaining pitfalls is **Async/Await** methods. It is to be noted that these methods are not faster, but merely easier to work with. In fact this was created in order to manage promise chaining. Asynchronous or **Async** functions always return a promise.

Using Async/Await syntax is easy: all you have to do is declare the a function as asynchronous with the `async` keyword and use the special `await` **operator** when you call the asynchronous method. The await operator forces the code to wait for the promise to finish.

For example, if we have the `async` function `doWork()`, which calls the function `add()` (from the promise chaining examples):

```javascript
const doWork = async () => { //async keyword before function definition
const sum = await add(1, 99) 
const sum2 = await add(sum, 50) 
const sum3 = await add(sum2, 3) 
return sum3
}
```

However to catch the errors that the `add()` function may throw, we can use the `then()` and `catch()` blocks to handle those. It is not good practice to ignore yout errors!

```javascript
doWork().then((result) => { 
  console.log('result', result)
}).catch((e) => { 
  console.log('e', e)
})
```

Note that if one of the `add()` functions **rejects** a promise, then the `catch` block is immediately executed. If the first `add()` function throws an error, then `console.log('e', e)` will be executed and `add(sum, 50) ` and `add(sum2, 3)` will not be run.

## Refactoring Functions that use Promise Chaining

We can rewrite methods that use promise chaining into async methods. Though it is not particularly necessary in the following examples because of their simplicity, if or when you do use more promises, you should use async functions.

In this exmaple we are deleting a task with a certain id and then displaying the number of unfinished tasks that are denoted with the `"completed": false` **key-value pair**. Both `findByIdAndDelete(id)` and `countDocuments({ completed: false })` return promises, so an `async` function can be used.

```javascript
// Task.findByIdAndDelete('5c1a63e8f0d4c50656c5ab28').then((task) => {
//     console.log(task)
//     return Task.countDocuments({ completed: false })
// }).then((result) => {
//     console.log(result)
// }).catch((e) => {
//     console.log(e)
// })

const deleteTaskAndCount = async (id) => {
    const task = await Task.findByIdAndDelete(id)
    const count = await Task.countDocuments({ completed: false })
    return count
}

deleteTaskAndCount('5c1a634150c97706427d4661').then((count) => {
    console.log(count)
}).catch((e) => {
    console.log(e)
})
```

In this exmaple we are updating a user with a certain age and then displaying the number of people whose ages are 1. Both `findByIdAndUpdate(id, { age })` and `countDocuments({ age })` return promises, so an `async` function can be used.

```javascript
// User.findByIdAndUpdate('5c1a5a34d5a2ec046ca8f6bc', { age: 1 }).then((user) => {
//     console.log(user)
//     return User.countDocuments({ age: 1 })
// }).then((result) => {
//     console.log(result)
// }).catch((e) => {
//     console.log(e)
// })

const updateAgeAndCount = async (id, age) => {
    const user = await User.findByIdAndUpdate(id, { age })
    const count = await User.countDocuments({ age })
    return count
}

updateAgeAndCount('5c1a5a34d5a2ec046ca8f6bc', 2).then((count) => {
    console.log(count)
}).catch((e) => {
    console.log(e)
})
```

