#  Getting a “shell”

- Now that you got a connection, you might notice it’s an ugly shell

- No tab complete, arrow keys don’t work, Ctrl+C kills the reverse shell instead, can’t execute commands like vi or nano...

- This is because:

- - No PTY (feel free to read more on your own)
  - Your terminal is not sending raw characters
  - The remote server does not know how your terminal works or how big it is

- Tricks:

- - python -c “import pty;pty.spawn(‘/bin/bash’)”

  - - this allows you to run a shell with a pty

  - Ctrl+Z to background nc, “stty raw -echo”, “fg”

  - - This allows your own terminal to send control sequences(like Ctrl+C) “raw” to nc
    - When you type “fg” these characters won’t appear on the terminal, it’s normal

  - Let the remote server know what terminal you’re using

  - - export TERM=?????

    - - You would have to find ????? by running “echo $TERM” on your own shell

    - (optional) stty rows ?? cols ??

    - - So commands use the whole screen

- For those confused: [youtu.be/dv5QJt4mccA](https://youtu.be/dv5QJt4mccA)

##### Finally, an actual shell! Now what?

- Now that we have a complete shell, how should we proceed?

- - We are currently www-data which can’t do a lot
  - How about trying to gain root instead?

- More enumeration

- - Sensitive files with insecure permissions?
  - Hidden files? Like passwords.txt
  - More services on the inside you can exploit?
  - Cron jobs as other users?
  - SUID binaries? (more on that later)
  - Improper sudo privileges?