<!--title={Stlying HTML on the Fly}-->

A HTML file on its own appears as blank text when run on a brower, but we can stlye it on the fly using Stylus with Express.

In this tutorial, we will be styling an HTML from the "STATIC" exercise using Stylus middleware.

If you haven't completed the "STATIC" exercise, then please follow the steps of creating the HTML file and public folder. Otherwise, skip ahead to creating the `main.styl` file.

Create a folder called ``public``. This is where we will store our HTML and stylus files, called ``index.html`` and ``main.styl`` respectively. In the HTML file, we will add the following code:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>expressworks</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/main.css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>I am red!</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

In the styl file, we will add:

```stylus
p
 color red //can also be written color: red
```

Note that for stylus, colons are optional, but white space is not.

Now that we have completed creating the files we will display on the browser, lets move on to displaying these using Express.

Lets create a new file called ``stylish_css.js``. In it, we will first import the dependencies. In this case the dependancies are the Express framework itself, as seen below.

``````javascript
const express = require('express')
``````

Next, we will create the Express app:

```javascript
const app = express()
```

Once we have created the app, we will then use the ``app.use`` method to apply the middleware, which in this case, is called ``stylus``. We will then pass the public folder into middleware so the app knows where to find the html and stlye sheet. The resulting command should look like:

```javascript
app.use(require('stylus').middleware('public')) 
//the argument inside middleware is, essentislly, '/path/to/folder', where 'public' is local. It can also be an absolute path
```

Invoke the method middleware, passing in the same argument as above:

```javascript
app.use(express.static('public'))
```

Finally, connect the file to a port by using the ``app.listen`` command.

```javascript
app.listen(5600)
```

Congratulations! You have learned how to style HTML on the fly using express. In order to test the code,  we must install stylus locally. Use the command:

```
npm install stylus --save
```

You can now run the code using nodeman. If you haven't already installed it, do so by typing 

```
npm install -g nodemon
```

Once nodemon is installed, type

```
nodemon stylish_css.js
```

into the terminal to run the code.

Then, hop over to the browers and type ``http://localhost:3000/`` into the search bar to see the results!