<!--title={Linked Lists Example: Movie Times}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:20}-->

<!--concepts={The Linked List, The Node,Inserting Into a Linked List, Deleting from a Linked List, Size of a Linked List,Search for an element in a Linked List}-->

Now that we have our Linked List implementation, we can put it to work! Assume we work at a film production company and we're holding auditions! The auditions begin at 9:00 in the morning.

```python
film = LinkedList()
film.head = Node(900)
```

>  Note: this is the code from the 2nd card! Remember that the first node of the Linked List when initialized will be the head node.

Now that we have intialized our Linked List with a head node, we will continue to build onto our Linked List for the duration of our film audition appointments. 
Each succeeding node will represent another scheduled audition, each 30 minutes apart.

One way we could do this is by creating a new node and setting it as the next node following the previous node:

```python
node1 = Node(930)
node2 = Node(1000)
film.head.set_next(node1)
node1.set_next(node2)
```

> Note: *node1* and *node2* are new nodes that represent two more scheduled auditions for our Linked List *film* that follow the head node. 

Since the first node in our Linked List is the head, we then call `film.head.set_next(node1)` in order to assign `node1` as the next node following the head. 
 Now that `node1` is the tail of our Linked List `film`, we next call `node1.set_next(node2)` in order to assign `node2` as the next node following the tail, `node1`.

Another way, and probably the easiest, we could add a new node to our *film* Linked List is by simply using the *insert()* function. Assume we got extra appointments for auditions up until lunchtime.

```python 
film.insert(1030)
film.insert(1100)
film.insert(1130)
film.insert(1200)
film.insert(1230)
```

> Note: the `insert()` function defined in the *LinkedList* class is capable of creating a new node with the designated data you pass and will assign it as the next node in your Linked List (only will append node to the END, or tail). 

Now we should have a Linked List that contains a total of 8 nodes that represent 8 appointments for auditions in succession. We can verify the number of nodes by using the *size()* function:

```python
print(film.size())
```

Assume we were notified that someone canceled their audition for 10:00 AM. Afterwards, a different person cancels their 12:30 PM appointment. (Maybe this means an earlier lunch!) To make sure their appointments are no longer in the system, we can use the `delete()` function defined in the *LinkedList* class:

```python
film.delete(1000)
film.delete(1230)
```

> Note: the *film* Linked List will retain its order of nodes after deletion of the specified nodes.

To confirm that we have removed the canceled appointments, we will check that the corresponding nodes were deleted from our Linked List by searching for them:

```python
print(film.search(1000))
print(film.search(1230))
```

> Note: The first `search()` function looking for the data point of 10:00 should return an error stating the data was not found (since the node has been deleted). The same should happen for the 12:30 node.

To double check, we can also check again using the *size()* function to identify that `film` now only contains 6 nodes in this order: 9:00, 9:30, 10:30, 11:00, 11:30, 12:00.

If we were to search for an existing appointment, we can do so in similar fashion:

```python
print(film.search(930))
```

> Note: the output produced will show the address in memory where the node is stored in our Linked List *film*.

In the case where we want to access the data in the node associated with 9:30 in `film`:

```python
print(film.search(930).get_data())
```
> Note: this outputs the data at the particular node we searched for, opposed to the address of the node as seen in the prior example.







