
## Quick Sort Implementation in Python

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = ( low-1 )         
    pivot = arr[high]     
```

The **partition** function will be responsible for actually placing our pivot point (always the last element of the list in this version) in its proper place. Notice what this means. There is no "right side" of the list as far as our pivot is concerned. Only a "left side". The goal remains the same however: all the numbers smaller than the pivot need to be to its left, and all larger numbers need to be to its right.  

In this system, we will attempt to always keep track of two elements : a smaller element and a bigger element. Here, we use `i` to represent the smaller element, specifically its position. We use the last element of the list as our pivot.

```python
	 for j in range(low, high):
        if arr[j] < pivot:
            i = i+1 
            arr[i],arr[j] = arr[j],arr[i] 
```

`j` will represent the larger element. The `i`'th element should always be smaller than the `j`'th element. This means that we want the elements of the list to be in increasing order as we pass through it.  We iterate through our list using `j`, doing nothing if the `j`'th element is bigger than the pivot. 

If the `j`'th element is smaller than our pivot, we increment `i`. Notice what happens! The `i`'th element is now *bigger* than the `j`'th element. So, we need to swap them.

```python
	arr[i+1], arr[high] = arr[high], arr[i+1] 
    return ( i+1 ) 
```

After we have finished iterating through our list, we should have sorted every element we could in this pass. All that's left is to put the pivot element into its proper place within our list. With the way we decided when to increment `i` in our algorithm, all elements to the right of the `i`'th element will be *bigger* than the pivot element. So, the place to insert our pivot element will be immediately to the right of the `i`'th element, or at the `i+1`'th position. We return this number to be used when we run **quickSort** again.

```python
def quickSort(arr,low,high): 
    if low < high: 
        pi = partition(arr,low,high) 
        quickSort(arr, low, pi-1) 
        quickSort(arr, pi+1, high) 
```

This is where we define the actual **quickSort** function. Notice the role of `pi` here. By the time we call the **partition** function and get the value of `pi`, we have placed the pivot element in its proper place. This means we only need to worry about sorting all the elements *before* it and *after* it. That's why we use `pi` to split our list into two and call **quicksort** on both halves. 

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
            i = i+1 
            arr[i],arr[j] = arr[j],arr[i]     
    arr[i+1],arr[high] = arr[high],arr[i+1] 
    return i+1 

def quickSort(arr,low,high): 
    if low < high: 
        pi = partition(arr,low,high) 
        
        quickSort(arr, low, pi-1) 
        quickSort(arr, pi+1, high)
        
# Driver Code
arr = [10, 7, 8, 9, 1, 5] 
n = len(arr) 
quickSort(arr,0,n-1) 
print ("Sorted array is:") 
for i in range(n): 
    print ("%d" %arr[i])
```

Use this code to call our functions and ensure they work properly.