<!--title={Quicksort Time Complexity}-->

<!--badges={Algorithms:15,Python:5}-->

<!--concepts={Quick sort}-->

Unlike the previous two algrothms, the quick sort algorithm actually has different time complexities depending on the average,worst or best case scenario. And they all depend greatly on the pivot that the algorithm chooses. Here is the code for reference:

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
            i = i+1 
            arr[i],arr[j] = arr[j],arr[i]     
    arr[i+1],arr[high] = arr[high],arr[i+1] 
    return i+1 

def quickSort(arr,low,high): 
    if low < high: 
        pi = partition(arr,low,high) 
        
        quickSort(arr, low, pi-1) 
        quickSort(arr, pi+1, high)
        
```



### Best Case

The Best case scenario for the quick sort algorithm is when the pivot always chooses the middle of the list. By doing so, it effectively halves the list and in turn doubles the execution speed. Thus, the time complexity would be O(nlogn) in the best case scenario. 

The Logn comes from the recursive calls:

```python
		quickSort(arr, low, pi-1) 
    quickSort(arr, pi+1, high)
```

If the pivot is in the middle every time, then you are working on both sides of the pivot evenly, thus speeding up the sorting process.

The n comes from the for loop present in our code:

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
```

When choosing the pivot, you are also sorting both sides of the pivot(left and right). And you are doing this though the for loop, where the for loop iterates n times. Thus, the O(n) time. Therefore, when you combine the two time complexities, you get O(nlogn). 

### Worst Case

The worst case occurs when the pivot is always choosing either the smallest or the largest element in the list. If this were to happen, then the algorithm will run in O(n^2) time depending on the implementation of the quicksort algorithm. This can be seen in the if statement:

```python
def partition(arr,low,high): 
    i = low - 1
    pivot = arr[high]
    for j in range(low, high): 
        if arr[j] < pivot: 
```

In the above code's example, if the pivot was always greater than arr[j], then only the following will always run:

```
arr[i+1],arr[high] = arr[high],arr[i+1] 
```

If this were to happen, then the second element in the list will always swap with the right element, making it manually swap the elements n^2 times. 

### Average Case

The Average case is the same as the best case scenario, in which the run time is O(nlogn). The n again comes from the for loop mentioned in the best case scenario. The logn, is also taken from the best case scenario. That is because, even if it is not a perfectly even split, the list is still divided into two! And due to that division and the for loop, the run time is O(nlogn).