<!--title={Using Regular Expressions}-->

## Using Regular Expressions

You may remember seeing ```import re``` while we were loading our packages earlier. Re stands for ```regular expressions```. Regular expressions are a special syntax that is used to identify patterns in a string.

Module re provides regular expression matching operations similar to those found in Perl.

While this lesson will not cover regular expressions, it is helpful to understand that this syntax below:

```
([^0-9A-Za-z \t])|(\w+:\/\/\S+)
```

Tells the search to find all strings that look like a URL, and replace it with nothing – `""`. It also removes other punctionation including hashtags - `#`. 

## Regular Expression Syntax

```python
^
```

Matches the start of the string, and in [`MULTILINE`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.MULTILINE) mode also matches immediately after each newline.

```python
[]
```

Used to indicate a set of characters.

```python
[^]
```

Characters not in [].  `[^abc]` matches characters other than a, b, c.

```python
|
```

`A|B`, where *A* and *B* can be arbitrary REs, creates a regular expression that will match either *A* or *B*. 

```python
\t
```

Match a tab.

```python
[a-zA-Z0-9]
```

Match any letter and number

```python
\S
```

Matches any character which is not a whitespace character. This is the opposite of `\s`. If the [`ASCII`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.ASCII)flag is used this becomes the equivalent of `[^ \t\n\r\f\v]`.

```python
\w
```

- For Unicode (str) patterns:

  Matches Unicode word characters; this includes most characters that can be part of a word in any language, as well as numbers and the underscore. If the [`ASCII`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.ASCII) flag is used, only `[a-zA-Z0-9_]` is matched.

- For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:

  Matches characters considered alphanumeric in the ASCII character set; this is equivalent to `[a-zA-Z0-9_]`. If the [`LOCALE`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.LOCALE) flag is used, matches characters considered alphanumeric in the current locale and the underscore.