### Middleware

Middleware is any software that connects operating systems like Linux, Windows, and MacOS to communication protocols and applications that run on it. We have already encountered middleware in the form of APIs. They help tie seperate applications together by "translating" between them and can allow clients to access high level programs without understanding the entire complexity of the program. Middleware can be used to optimize already existing applications as well as help create new ones efficiently.

With express, middleware functions are used to execute code, change requests and response objects, and call more middleware functions. 

### Installing and Importing Modules 

Node.js has 3 different types of modules that can be accessed through your code. Built-in modules do not need to be installed and can be used just by importing them into your code. NPM Modules are thrid party modules that can be installed into a `node_modules` folder through the terminal and accessed with Node.js. Express is an example of a NPM modlue. Lastly there are local modules that are accessed by providing a file path to your module. These are in the form `./`,`/`,or`../`.

To access these modules in our code we have to import them. We normally do this with `require('module_name')`. The parameter passed into `require()` is the nam e of the module you are trying to import. Here's what it looks like to import Express into our code 

```js
var express = require('express')
```

Breaking this line down, `var` is used as standard JS syntax for a variable, `express` is the name we assign the variable that contains the express module, and we use `require()` to import the module `express`. 

### Body-Parser and URL Encoded

`Body-parser` is a parsing middleware package that is built into Express.js so like all packages they must be installed before use. 

```
npm install body-parser --save
```

After installation you can use the body-parser object in your code

```js
var bodyParser = require('body-parser')
```

`body-parser` has many different middleware options for different formats but we will be focusing on `urlencoded`. URL encoded is the way your request is formatted. Generally speaking the format of a URL encoded resquest is a string of the names and vaules of your request where the names are attached to the values with an `=` sign and each variable is sperated with `&`. A general form of a URL encoded request would look like this `url/name1=value1&name2=value2`.

When we use `body-parser` we have to specify which format is being taken into the middleware. Since we are using `urlencoded` we would specify this and our general call to `body-parser` would look like this 

```js
bodyParser.urlencoded([options])
```

The options are paramaters that can be passed to `body-parser` that do additional tasks. An important option is the `extended` option. `extended` determines where the URL encoded data is parsed. When extended is set to true, the request is parsed in the **qs** library and returns key-value pairs of any type. When extended is set to false, the request is parsed in the **querystring** library and returns key-value pairs of strings or arrays. `Extended` set to a default true unless otherwise specified. 

Other options of `bodyParser.urlencoded([options])` are displayed below:

| Option         | Description                                                  |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| inflate        | If `true`(default), deflated (compressed) bodies will be inflated. If `false`, deflated bodies are rejected. |
| limit          | Controls the maximum request body size.                      |
| parameterLimit | Controls the maximum number of parameters that are allowed in the URL-encoded data |
| type           | Determines what media type the middleware will parse         |

###  

### Nodemon

Nodemon is an application that starts your server and restarts the server with every change you make in your program. We use it to start the local server accessed by express (`http://localhost:3000 `). 

Like all third party applications we must install nodemon through console. 

```
npm install nodemon
```

Here we dont need `--save` because nodemon is a global package. To use nodemon it is just like justing node. When we want to run ur program we just type 

```
nodemon file.js
```

After you run the program, just head to server on a web browser and see your result!
