<!--title={Board: Helper Functions}-->

<!--badge={Software Engineering:110,Tinkerer:110}-->

<!--concepts={class_variables.mdx, class_method.mdx}-->

What other object(s) does the game has besides cells? **A board! **

Let's create a **board** that we can display for the game! We can do this by developing a `Board` class. 

The `Board` class inherits from the `tuple` class. The class definition and constructor are provided for you here:

```python
class Board(tuple):
    def __init__(self, tup):
        super().__init__()
        self.is_playing = True
```

Because we inherit from the `tuple` class, `self` will reference a tuple that will contain the list of cells. You can reference a specific `Cell ` at `(row_id, col_id)` by using the code `self[row_id][col_id]`. 

We'll first implement some **helper methods** that are necessary for the main class functions:

* A method `place_mine` that places a mine at a cell. 
* A method `count_surrounding` that returns the number of surrounding mines of a cell. 
* A method `get_neighbors` that returns all neighbors of a cell 
* A method `is_in_range` that returns if a cell's row and column are valid and in range 
  * Our implentation uses `is_in_range` in conjunction with `get_neighbors` inside of `count_surrounding`
  * optional if you handle out of bound errors in `is_in_range` or `get_neighbors`
* A method `remaining_mines` that will return the number of remaining mines
  * equal to number of mines subtracted by number of flags used
  * will display for the user to know how many mines there areleft
  * should have the `property()` decorator

We recommend starting off with the helper functions then moving on to the main ones.

---

picture idea: Minesweeper board