# x64 Calling Conventions

- Hoo boy, that was a LOT of stuff! Depending on time constraints, I might [skip](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15A4pv1zScx2K8IxyLFspuToyGNOKuqC3y2uhhnHnI4I/edit#slide=id.g6b1e0e52b2_0_651) to the good stuff (buffer overflows), but if yall’re up to it let’s take a look at 64-bit calling conventions first!

- - It’s different, but not that different, from x86 conventions. Don’t be scared! You did most of the heavy lifting already!

- There are two major differences:

- - Stack values are now 8 bytes big, not 4 bytes

  - - That’s why 64-bit computers are 64-bit computers, they operate on 64 bits (8 bytes) at a time!

  - Function call arguments are passed **in registers** rather than on the stack!

  - - The return value, saved ebp (although now called rbp), and local variables remain on the stack. The only change is with the passed-in arguments.

- We can take a look at the disassembly of 2_x64_convention, which is compiled from the same source code as the x86 one. We’ll only be taking a look at how test3 is called. You can explore the rest on your own, and it’s not that different from x86.

- - Seriously, in your free time, grab a piece of paper and run through the assembly by yourself! This is extremely useful for understanding how exactly function calls work under the hood

- Here’s an excerpt from main:

- - mov $0x3, %edx
  - mov $0x2, %esi
  - mov $0x1, %edi
  - call test3

- The arguments are passed into the registers rdi, rsi, rdx, rcx, r8, r9, in that order.