<!--title={When and Why Object-oriented Programming?}-->

<!--badges={Software Engineering:15}-->

<!--concepts={python_objects.mdx}-->

# When and Why Object-oriented Programming?

## When should we use Object-oriented programming?

We use this model whenever we build complex programs where information can be grouped into objects. 

## Why should we use Object-oriented programming?

We use object-oriented programming for the benefit of us and those working with us on building complex programs! Essentially, the model allows us to organize information in a much cleaner way because the model makes programs modular. **Modular code**, which means organizing our code blocks to specific tasks, is best practice. 

For instance, our `PywitterUser` class is a code block that defines characteristics of a `PywitterUser` and what can a `PywitterUser` do. This concept is tied to one of the four fundamental principles of object-oriented programming: **encapsulation**! More will be covered in the future! 

We also use object-oriented programming for the benefit of others too! **User-friendly code** is also best practice. We want to hide the implementation details of our code, so when users use our classes, they do not have to worry about how to implement them. 

For instance, when someone utilizes the `PywitterUser` class to create a new user of our artificial social network, they can just know that they have to do the following in order to create an object of our class: `Bob = PywitterUser("pythonIsC00l")`. This idea is similiar to how we use modules to get access to functions so that we do not have to implement them ourselves from scratch. This concept is also tied to one of the four fundamental principles of object-oriented programming: **abstraction**! More will be covered in the future!