<!--title={Four Principles of OOP and Encapsulation}-->

<!--badges={Software Engineering:15,Python:5}-->

<!--concepts={python_objects.mdx}-->

# Four Principles of Object-Oriented Programming 

**The four principles of object-oriented programming are the following:**

1. Encapsulation
2. Abstraction
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism

We will go over inheritance in Part 2 and polymorphism in Part 3. In this card, we will first go over **encapsulation**. 

# Encapsulation

Let's say we are trying to build a Sims game; there are people and cats in the game, and they communicate with each other. We apply **encapsulation** here by "encapsulating" all the logic for cat into a `Cat` class. 

A `Cat` class can have the following attributes:

* `mood`
* `hungry`
* `energy`

A `Cat` class can also have the following methods:

* `meow()`
* `sleep()`
* `play()`
* `feed()`

**Encapsulation** also includes defining which attributes/methods that we want to be accessible to others and which ones are exclusive from others besides the class itself.

For instance, we can make the attributes, `mood`, `hungry`, and `energy`, all **private**, meaning that the variables can only be accessed by the `Cat` class itself. We can also make the `meow()` method private, which means that other classes that are not `Cat` class cannot tell the cat when to meow besides the `Cat` class itself. Thus, the `meow()` function will be used to implement other methods in the `Cat` class. 

Methods/attributes that can be accessible to outside classes are **public**; in our example, we can make `sleep()`, `play()`,  and`feed()` public, meaning that we can use these functions outside of the `Cat` class. These public functions can call `meow()`. This will work because these public functions are in the `Cat` class; thus, the private method, `meow()`, is called inside the `Cat` class. 

